<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[22.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 689 Syllabus
Section 603 (62419)
Special Topics in...
Fall 2025 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 3:55PM
End Time: 5:10PM
Start Date: 08/25/2025
End Date: 12/16/2025
Meeting Location:  HRBB 113
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Zhengzhong Tu
Email:  tzz@tamu.edu
Office:  PETR 220
Phone:  979-845-5904
Office Hours
Tues 5:30 PM - 6:15PM
[16.0pt] Course Description
A seminar course in generative artificial intelligence; deep learning basics;
convolutional neural networks; advanced architectures like vision transformers;
variational autoencoders (VAEs) and generative adversarial networks (GANs);
diffusion models and applications; creative AI; video generative models; 3D and
multimodality; large language models (LLMs); vision-language models (VLMs); large
language model agents and applications. This course will be blended with lectures
and student presentations, as well as group project presentations.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
N/A
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
List and describe standard methods of generative models in language and
vision.
Describe the pros and cons of various types of generative models
Articulate the need for generative models
Identify the evaluation methods for generative models in language and vision
Apply generative modeling approaches to real-world applications
Conduct literature reviews, summarize recent research, and develop new
research ideas
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Deep Learning
Authors:  Ian Goodfellow, Yoshua Bengio, Aaron Courville
Publication Date:  2016
This material Is: Recommended
Computer Vision: Algorithms and Applications
Authors:  Richard Szeliski
Publication Date:  2010
This material Is: Recommended
Dive into Deep Learning
Authors:  Aston Zhang, Zack Lipton, Mu Li, Alex Smola
Publication Date:  2019
This material Is: Recommended
The Little Book of Deep Learning
Authors:  FRANÇOIS FLEURET
Publication Date:  2024
This material Is: Recommended
Probabilistic Machine Learning: An Introduction
Authors:  Kevin Murphy
Publication Date:  2022
This material Is: Recommended
Foundations of Computer Vision
Authors:  Antonio Torralba, Philip Isola, William T. Freeman
Publication Date:  2024
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Topic Studies
Paper Reviews 15%
Student Presentation  15%
Class Participation  10%
Final Project  60%
Milestone 1 Report (2-pager; Proposal Report) 10%
Milestone 2 Report (4-pager; Midterm Report) 10%
Final Presentation 20%
Final report and code review  20%
There will be no final exam
The grading scale will be:
A = 90-100
B = 80-89
C = 70-79
D = 60-69
F = <60
Any academic misconduct in this course will result in a grade of F.
Description of Graded Work
The students should practice and learn how to identify a research gap in a
specific topic in generative AI, conduct literature reviews and paper
presentations, and close critical gaps in the final project session. At first,
students should choose one specific topic and do the following tasks
surrounding their chose topic.
Students are expected to present some interesting recent papers in class,
one each time, which they must do individually, for a given topic study. The
paper presentation session should be similar to the conference oral
presentation, demonstrating the understanding of research papers and
practicing the presentation skills to deliver key contributions and
methodologies of the reviewed research. The papers are pre-selected and
assigned by the instructor.
Students are also expected to submit a critical review/summary of the papers
that are to be presented in the class. Students should identify a specific
theme or topic and submit at least three paper reviews in a cohesive
formulation. Note that these three papers should be different from the one
you present during the lecture.
Students should be expected to attend an in-class mid-term exam (quizzes)
to assess their understanding of the concepts and knowledge covered in the
lectures. The exam will happen during the lecture, with time to be
determined.
Students are expected to attend both the lecture and presentation classes.
Asking questions after paper presentation or final project presentation will
receive a bonus point (up to 3%)
Students will form small groups (1-4 students in each group, formed in the
first few weeks) to conduct collaborative research activities until the final
project presentation. Students will learn how to conduct research by
identifying a research problem, running experiments, coding, and iterating
until they write a technical report and give a presentation. The students
should learn how to collaborate and communicate in a research group.
The final report should be an 8-page technical report using the CVPR
template:  https://github.com/cvpr-org/author-kit/releases .
Supplementary materials are optional.
The final project code should be submitted as a Zip file or as a Google
Drive link (it must be accessible). A clearly written README file should
be included on how to run the project.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
For late submission, each additional late day will incur a 10% penalty, no exception.
• 1 day late: 10% penalty
• 2 days late: 20% penalty
• 3 days late: 30% penalty
• 4 days late: 50% penalty
• 5 or more days late: 100% penalty
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempted from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
The student is responsible for informing the instructor in a timely manner about
excused absences. The instructor will then work with the student to catch up on
their submissions, including missed group class participation.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
WeekTopics
1
Introduction to Generative AI; Representation Learning: Supervised and
Unsupervised
2
Deep Learning Backbones, Building Blocks and Architectures;
Generative Models: Autoregressive Models; Transformer Deep Dive
3
Autoregressive Transformers; Autoencoders; Variational Autoencoders
(VAE), VQ-VAE, GANs
4
Diffusion Models: Methods and Applications; Introduction to Large
Language Models and Multimodal Models
5
Fine-tuning and adaptation of LLMs and VLMs;
Trustworthiness of LLMs: Hallucination, Alignment, and RAG
6
Trustworthiness of LLMs: Safety and Security;
Reasoning, Planning, and Agents
7
Student Presentation #1 #2 (Topics selected by instructor)
8
Student Presentation - #3 (Topics selected by instructor)
9
Student Presentation #4 #5 (Topics selected by instructor)
10
Student Presentation #6 #7 (Topics selected by instructor)
11
Student Presentation #8 #9 (Topics selected by instructor)
12
Student Presentation #10 #11 (Topics selected by instructor)
13
Student Presentation #12; Final Project Presentations
14
Final Project Presentations
15
No Class
16
Final Project Report Due
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] Learning Resources
This course does not mandate any textbook. The lecture slides/videos and other
materials provided by the instructor will be sufficient, serving as the primary
reference. In addition, the students are recommended to refer to the following
textbooks:
Foundations of Computer Vision , Antonio Torralba, Philip Isola, William T.
Freeman (2024).
Deep Learning ,  Ian Goodfellow, Yoshua Bengio, Aaron Courville (2016).
Computer Vision: Algorithms and Applications , Richard Szeliski (2010).
Dive into Deep Learning ,  Aston Zhang, Zack Lipton, Mu Li, Alex Smola
(2019).
The Little Book of Deep Learning , FRANÇOIS FLEURET (2024).
Probabilistic Machine Learning: An Introduction , Kevin Murphy (2022).
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Senate established the wording of these policies.
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information Witholding
Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records policy is
available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the  First Amendment.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Use of Generative AI
With the emergence of artificial intelligence (AI) technologies, the ways in which we
define our creative processes continue to transform. The presence of such tools,
however, does not replace our need to learn how to draft, revise, and reflect on
texts, programs, and lectures, as well as how to exercise information literacy and
personal responsibility in how we locate, evaluate, incorporate, and cite primary or
secondary sources.
Overall, education includes preparing leaders to be the innovators and leaders of
tomorrow. That means we need to learn to use emerging technologies responsibly.
Therefore, generative AI tools (e.g., ChatGPT, Google, Bard, Dall-E 2) is permitted on
assignments in this course if you wish to use them. AI is not intended to do all the
work for you but rather to get you started with ideas or to provide feedback on your
progress.
To adhere to scholarly values, cite any AI-generated material that informed your
work (this includes in-text citations and/or use of quotations, and in a reference list).
Using an AI tool to generate content without proper attribution qualifies as
academic dishonesty. As a general rule, no more than 30% of an assignment should
come directly from text generated from an AI tool. For an example of how to cite a
generative AI tool using APA 7th edition, see the APA Style Blog for the correct way
to cite ChatGPT. You would use this citation within the text (body of your
paper/assignment) and for your references list.