<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[22.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Industrial and Systems Engineering
[16.0pt] ISEN 441 Syllabus
Section 501 (59132)
System Reliability Engineering
Fall 2025 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 12:45PM
End Time: 2:00PM
Start Date: 08/25/2025
End Date: 12/16/2025
Meeting Location:  ZACH 442
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Nancy Currie-Gregg
Email:  currie-gregg@tamu.edu
Office:  ETB 4080 | ZACH 510C
Phone:  979-458-2342
Office Hours
Monday 4:00-5:00 p.m. | Thursday 10:00-11:00 a.m.
Preferred Contact Method
Communication with the instructor throughout the semester is highly encouraged.
Students needing assistance should attend office hours with either the instructor or
GTA. Additionally, to provide timely responses to student questions and rapid
delivery of announcements to the class, an MS Teams site will be established and
used throughout the semester. All students must have access to MS Teams and
accept the invitation to join the course site. Communication via MS Teams is highly
preferred instead of email.
Any communications with the instructor that contain personal information must be
done via private chat through MS Teams. MS Teams chats/messages may also be
used for student-student communications or to post questions to the entire class
or sub-groups.
Webpage:  https://safe.engr.tamu.edu/
Biography
Dr. Nancy Currie-Gregg is the Director of the Texas A&M University Space Institute.
As the Don Lummus '58 Professor of Practice in Engineering, she holds joint
appointments in the Departments of Aerospace Engineering and Industrial and
Systems Engineering at Texas A&M University's College of Engineering.
Internationally recognized for her human-system integration, safety engineering,
and risk management expertise, her research focuses on optimizing human
performance and safety in aerospace systems. She also serves on the Board of
Directors for the Texas Space Commission, leading initiatives that promote growth
across all sectors of the Texas space economy.
Dr. Currie-Gregg spent the majority of her career supporting NASA's human
spaceflight programs. A former NASA astronaut, she flew on four space shuttle
missions, logging over 1,000 hours in space, and made significant contributions to
the development of human spaceflight operations. Following the Space Shuttle
Columbia tragedy, she managed the Space Shuttle Program Safety and Mission
Assurance Office, overseeing the agency's return-to-flight efforts. She later served
as Principal Engineer and Chief Engineer with the NASA Engineering and Safety
Center, where she led independent engineering assessments for high-risk human
spaceflight initiatives. A retired U.S. Army Colonel and Master Army Aviator, she
accrued more than 4,000 flight hours in both rotary- and fixed-wing aircraft.
Dr. Currie-Gregg holds a Bachelor's degree in Biological Sciences with honors from
The Ohio State University, a Master of Science in Safety Engineering from the
University of Southern California, and a Ph.D. in Industrial Engineering from the
University of Houston.
Socials
https://www.linkedin.com/in/curriegregg/
[16.0pt] Course Description
Methods of system modeling and analysis to predict and enhance the reliability,
maintainability, and availability of aerospace systems including component and
systems reliability models, system life prediction, and data collection and analysis of
failure and repair distributions.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in STAT 211 or equivalent; junior
or senior classification.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
This is a cross-listed course with both AERO and ISEN sections due to the
interdisciplinary nature of the subject. It is also stacked with the graduate versions
of the course (AERO 689). Graduate and undergraduate students will have different
requirements and weighting for quizzes, homework assignments, and the course
project.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Apply probabilistic methods to evaluate aerospace component and system
reliabilities.
Analyze reliability, availability, and maintainability estimates to recommend
preferred system architectures and/or designs.
Understand how to collect failure and repair data and analyze that data to fit
reliability distributions.
Apply course methods and techniques to assess a real-world case study or
problem involving the reliability of systems.
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Reliability and Risk Analysis
ISBN:  9781000864137
Authors:  Mohammad Modarres, Katrina Groth
Publisher:  CRC Press
Publication Date:  2023-04-26
Edition:  2nd Ed.
Notes:
E-book available through TAMU library
This material Is: Required
An Introduction to Reliability and Maintainability
Engineering
ISBN:  9781478639336
Authors:  Charles E. Ebeling
Publisher:  Waveland Press
Publication Date:  2019-04-12
Edition:  3rd. Ed.
[16.0pt] Additional Instructional Materials
This Material is: Optional
Applied Statistics and Probability for Engineers,
WileyPLUS
ISBN:  9781119758723
Authors:  Douglas C. Montgomery, George C. Runger
Publisher:  Wiley
Publication Date:  2020-07-08
Edition:  7e
URL for Resource:  https://education.wiley.com
Notes:
This is a self-paced review for probability and statistics
that is available via a WileyPlus course. Students can use
this resource to ensure they have an appropriate
probability and statistics background for success in this
course.
Note: Students may register for a free two-week trial
account on WileyPlus. If access is desired for an
extended period, there is a minimal fee for a student
license for five months of access to the WileyPlus course.
Alternatively, lifetime access to the e-book is also
available.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Your performance in the course is evaluated via multiple learning activities (exams,
homework, case study, and lecture activities). The final course grade will be
determined via the following weights:
Method of Evaluation
Percent of Grade
Exams (Exam 1: 25%; Exam 2: 25%)
50%
Homework
25%
Project
15%
Quizzes
05%
Activities
05%
Grading Scale (based on weighted total)
A
90-100%
B
80-89%
C
70-79%
D
60-69%
F
<60%
Exams
There will be two exams during the course. All exams will be open-book and open-
notes. Students are encouraged to develop their own reference/equation sheets
and/or software tools that may be used during the exam. All students must strictly
adhere to the  Aggie Honor Code  during examinations. Only course resources, or
those created by the individual student, may be accessed during the exam. Use of
AI tools during exams is strictly prohibited.
Exam Dates
Date
Material covered in
exam
Exam 1
09-23-2025
Lectures 2-8
Exam 2
10-28-2025
Lectures 9-16
Exam Re-grading Policy
Students have 24 hours following the release of exam grades to correct any errors
on quantitative problems and submit for re-grading. Non-quantitative and extra
credit problems will not be eligible for re-grading and will be denoted as such on
each exam. If the resubmitted solutions are complete and correct, and all work to
derive the new solution is shown, then 50% of the points originally deducted will be
awarded.
The re-grading period is considered part of the exam period. Students must work
on the corrections individually and MAY NOT consult with any other person,
including current/former students, teaching assistants, graders, or professors, when
developing their corrections. Any violation of this policy will be considered cheating
and a  violation of the Aggie Honor Code .
Homework
There will be approximately seven homework assignments during the course.
Instructions, due dates and times, and points associated with each homework
assignment will be announced during lectures and through Canvas. Study groups
are encouraged, but each student is responsible for developing solutions and
submitting them electronically via Canvas. No paper copies will be accepted.
Project
A project will be completed to demonstrate the practical application of the course
material, with an emphasis on the series of lectures on failure analysis. A project
report containing the results from the reliability/failure analysis will be submitted
after the conclusion of the failure analysis module.
Quizzes
Low-stakes quizzes (5% of the course grade) will be used to provide students with
the opportunity to identify and remedy potential learning gaps. All quizzes will be
open-book and open-notes. Students are encouraged to develop their own
reference/equation sheets and/or software tools that may be used during quizzes.
Only course resources, or those created by the individual student, may be accessed
during quizzes. Since quizzes are a form of active learning, no re-grading is offered
for quizzes.
If a student misses a quiz due to a university-excused absence (see  Student Rule 7) ,
and has notified the instructor, in writing, in advance prior to the absence, they may
make up the quiz by 5:00 p.m. CT the day following the lecture period in which the
quiz was given.
Lecture Activities
This course will utilize active learning methods during lecture periods, including
group activities. To incentivize course participation and encourage student
engagement, all students who attend a lecture and complete the associated lecture
activity will be given full credit.
No late lecture activities will be accepted. If a student misses an activity due to a
university-excused absence (see  Student Rule 7 ), and has notified the instructor, in
writing, in advance of the absence, they may complete and submit the activity for
credit by 5:00 p.m. CT the day following the lecture period in which the activity was
completed.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Homework and case study assignments submitted after the due date/time will not
receive total credit, unless due to a university-excused absence (see attendance
policy). Points will be deducted for assignments submitted past the due date and
time on Canvas—equivalent to 20% of the total points possible for each day, or
portion thereof, past the due date. Assignments submitted more than five days
after the due date will not be accepted and a score of zero will be recorded for the
assignment.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Course topics
Reliability characterization
Reliability testing and prediction
Component reliability analysis
System failure analysis
System reliability analysis
Repairable systems and availability
State-dependent system analysis
Case studies
[12.0pt] Detailed Course Schedule
Date
Lecture Topics
08/26/25
1
Course Introduction
Course introduction; Intro to Reliability Engineering
08/28/25
09/02/25
2
3
Basic reliability engineering mathematics
Probability review & Discrete probability distribution
Discrete probability distributions
09/04/25
09/09/25
09/11/25
09/16/25
09/18/25
4
5
6
7
8
Component reliability analysis
Reliability characterization
Constant failure rate models (Exponential/Gamma)
Time-dependent failure rate models: Normal
Time-dependent failure rate models: Weibull
Time-dependent failure rate models: Lognormal
09/23/25
Exam 1 (Lectures 2-8)
09/25/25
09/30/25
10/02/25
10/07/25
9
10
11
12
System reliability analysis
Serial & parallel configurations
Complex systems reliability
State-dependent systems
State-dependent systems
10/09/25
10/14/25
10/16/25
10/21/25
10/23/25
13
14
15
16
Reliability testing and prediction
Reliability testing
Fall break: No classes
Reliability testing & allocation
Hypothesis testing
Estimation of reliability distribution parameters
Date
Lecture Topics
10/28/25
Exam 2 (Lectures 9-16)
10/30/25
11/04/25
11/0625
11/11/25
11/13/25
17
18
19
20
21
System failure analysis
Failure Modes and Effect Analysis (FMEA)
Failure modes, effects, & criticality analysis (FMECA)
Fault Tree Analysis (FTA)
FTA evaluation/ Event Trees/Bow Tie Analysis
Case Study/Human Reliability Analysis (HRA)
11/18/25
11/20/25
11/25/25
22
23
24
Repairability & Availability
Availability variables & Repair time distributions
Availability metrics for repairable systems
Maintainability
11/27/25
Thanksgiving Day: No classes
12/02/25
25
Case studies
12/04/25
26
Quiz: Lectures 22-24, Review of course
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
Course materials and copyright:
The materials used in this course are copyrighted. "Materials" includes all items
produced for this course, such as the syllabus, detailed course schedule, lecture
slides, online lecture videos, homework or exam questions and solutions, and
additional resources posted on the course site by the instructor. You may not copy
or distribute these materials unless expressly granted permission by the author.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Senate established the wording of these policies.
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information Witholding
Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records policy is
available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.