<!-- body_font:10.5pt -->
[22.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Industrial and Systems Engineering
[16.0pt] ISEN 620 Syllabus
[11.0pt] Section 601 (52745)
[11.0pt] Survey of Optimization
[11.0pt] Fall 2025 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
[11.0pt] Credit Hours:  3
[11.0pt] Meeting Times: TR 2:20 PM – 3:35 PM
[11.0pt] Classroom: ETB 2026
[11.0pt] Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
[11.0pt] Sergiy Butenko
[11.0pt] Email:  butenko@tamu.edu
[11.0pt] Office:  ETB 4037
[11.0pt] Phone:  979-458-2333
[11.0pt] Office Hours
[13.0pt] TR  10:00-11:00  AM   or   by   appointment
[16.0pt] Course Description
This is an introductory course discussing theory and numerical methods for deterministic
linear and nonlinear optimization. Topics to be discussed include linear programming,
unconstrained and constrained nonlinear optimization, including classical optimality
conditions and numerical algorithms.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
[11.0pt] Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  MATH 304 or MATH 311.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
[11.0pt] None
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
[11.0pt] Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
[11.0pt bold] Analyze  and  apply  linear and nonlinear programming theory and algorithms.
[11.0pt bold] Formulate  linear and nonlinear optimization models from real-world problems.
[11.0pt bold] Solve  small-scale optimization problems by hand and  utilize  optimization software to
[11.0pt] solve large-scale problems.
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
[11.0pt] This material Is: Required
[11.0pt] Course Handbook
[11.0pt] URL for Resource:
[11.0pt] https://drive.google.com/file/d/1KOF0V8vKpe1CiqwJAJ24
[11.0pt] 9Ubqrsqv-IXw/view?usp=sharing
[11.0pt] This material Is: Recommended
[11.0pt] Numerical Methods and Optimization
[11.0pt] ISBN:  9781466577787
[11.0pt] Authors:  Sergiy Butenko, Panos M. Pardalos
[11.0pt] Publisher:  CRC Press
[11.0pt] Publication Date:  2014-03-11
[11.0pt] Notes:
[13.0pt] The   course   manual   with   all   the   materials
[13.0pt] required   for   successful   completion   of   the
[13.0pt] course   is   provided .  In   addition ,  it   is
[13.0pt] recommended  ( but   not   required )  to   have   at
[13.0pt] least   one   reference   text   covering   linear   and
[13.0pt] nonlinear   optimization ,  such   as   Numerical
[13.0pt] Methods   and   Optimization :  An   Introduction   by
[13.0pt] Butenko   and   Pardalos ,  ISBN : 978-1466577770
[13.0pt] or   Linear   and   Nonlinear   Optimization   by   Griva ,
[13.0pt] Nash   and   Sofer ,  ISBN  978-0-898716-61-0.
[13.0pt] Additional   references :  Introduction   to
[13.0pt] Mathematical   Programming   by   Winston   and
[13.0pt] Venkataramanan ,  Fourth   Edition ,  Duxbury ;
[13.0pt] Linear   Programming   and   Network   Flows   by
[13.0pt] Bazarra ,  Jarvis   and   Sherali ,  Second   Edition ,
[13.0pt] Wiley ;  An   Introduction   to   Optimization   by
[13.0pt] Chong   and   Zak ,  Second   Edition ,  Wiley .
[16.0pt] Additional Instructional Materials
[11.0pt] This Material is: Required
[11.0pt] Software and Computing Resources
[11.0pt] Notes:
[13.0pt] The   course   is   computing - intensive .  The   required   advanced
[13.0pt] optimization   software  ( AMPL )  will   be   made   available   for   download
[13.0pt] on   Canvas  ( for   Windows ,  Mac ,  and   Linux ).  You   must   ensure   access
[13.0pt] to   a   computer   that   runs   AMPL   and   Excel  ( or   a   compatible
[13.0pt] spreadsheet   application   with   Solver   add - on ).
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
All graded assignments will be open book/notes and must be completed via Canvas. It is
crucial that all the graded work is completed on your own, in accordance with the Aggie
Honor Code and the rules specified for each assignment. Any violations of academic
integrity rules will result in severe penalties, such as F ∗  for the course and report to the
honor council. A preliminary, automatically generated grade will appear on Canvas
immediately upon submission of your work, however, this grade may not be final, as
some assignments will require submitting additional materials (such as a scan of your
work and/or computer codes) for grading.
There will be the total of 40 graded assignments, described next.
• 4 Exams – 20% each. The exams will be open book/notes. Each exam will be
proctored to maintain scholastic integrity of the program. The instructor will provide Zoom
proctoring. If the exam dates/times specified in the detailed schedule below do not work
for you, you should notify the instructor no later than Friday preceding the first exam, so
that alternative arrangements can be made.
• 11 Homework Quizzes – 15%. The homework quizzes will be conducted via Canvas,
no proctor is required. The quizzes will be based on the practice problems, solutions to
which are provided in the course handbook (“Solution Manual” chapter). The quizzes will
be timed, but you will have the flexibility to take them any time before the midnight of the
quiz date specified in the course schedule.
• 25 Lecture Quizzes – 5%. Lecture quizzes are based on the videos of lectures and
should be taken according to the schedule at page 6.
The final letter grades will be calculated using the formula
weighted average = 0.05(lec quiz average)+0.15(hw quiz average)+0.8(exam average)
and will be assigned as follows. A: [90,100], B: [80,90), C: [70,80), D: [60,70), F: [0,60).
Optional Final Exam will be offered as a chance to improve your final grade. The exam
will consist of the problems of the same types as the four exams given during the
semester. You will be able to choose which problems to solve. You will have two hours to
complete the exam, and the score for each problem you attempt will replace the score
you obtained for the problem of the same type in the original exam (whenever the new
score is higher).
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
[11.0pt] Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
[11.0pt] considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
While you are expected to follow the schedule above for best learning outcomes, the due
dates are not strictly enforced. Late submissions will not be penalized, as long as they
are completed before the exam covering the corresponding material. If an exam is
missed, you must contact the instructor as soon as possible with a written authorized
excuse. Make up exams will be given in accordance with University Rules (see Rule 7
at  http://student-rules.tamu.edu ).
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[10.5pt bold] Week
[10.5pt bold] Date
[10.5pt bold] Topic
[10.5pt bold] Deliverable
[10.5pt bold] Part 1: LP Basics
1
T
8/26
Lec. 1: Introduction
Lec 1 quiz
R
8/28
Lec. 2: Introduction to Optimization Software
Lec 2 quiz
2
T 9/2
Lec. 3: LP Modeling
Lec 3 quiz
R 9/4
Lec. 4: LP Assumptions and Graphical Method
Lec 4 quiz
3
T 9/9
[10.5pt bold] Homework quiz #1 due
Hw quiz 1
T 9/9
Lec. 5: Simplex Method: An Introduction
Lec 5 quiz
R
9/11
Lec. 6: Simplex Method: Termination &
Initialization
Lec 6 quiz
[10.5pt bold] Week
[10.5pt bold] Date
[10.5pt bold] Topic
[10.5pt bold] Deliverable
4
T
9/16
[10.5pt bold] Homework quiz #2 due
Hw quiz 2
T
9/16
Lec. 7: Analysis of the Simplex Method
Lec 7 quiz
R
9/18
[10.5pt bold] Homework quiz #3 due
Hw quiz 3
R
9/18
[10.5pt bold] Exam 1 (6:00–7:30 PM Zoom)
Exam 1
[10.5pt bold] Part 2: Duality and Sensitivity Analysis, IP Modeling
5
T
9/23
Lec. 8: LP Duality: Introduction
Lec 8 quiz
R
9/25
Lec. 9: Complementary Slackness
Lec 9 quiz
6
T
9/30
Lec. 10: Simplex Method in Matrix Form
Lec 10 quiz
R
10/2
[10.5pt bold] Homework quiz #4 due
Hw quiz 4
R
10/2
Lec. 11: Sensitivity Analysis
Lec 11 quiz
7
T
10/7
Lec. 12: Sensitivity Analysis
Lec 12 quiz
R
10/9
[10.5pt bold] Homework quiz #5 due
Hw quiz 5
R
10/9
Lec. 13: IP Modeling
Lec 13 quiz
8
T
10/14
Fall Break
Deep breath
R
10/16
Lec. 14: IP Modeling
Lec 14 quiz
[10.5pt bold] Week
[10.5pt bold] Date
[10.5pt bold] Topic
[10.5pt bold] Deliverable
9
M
10/20
[10.5pt bold] Homework quiz #6 due
Hw quiz 6
T
10/21
[10.5pt bold] Exam 2 (6:00–7:30 PM Zoom)
Exam 2
R
10/23
Lec. 15: Nonlinear Opt.: Preliminaries
Lec 15 quiz
[10.5pt bold] Part 3: Unconstrained Optimization
10
T
10/28
Lec. 16: FONC for Unconstrained Problems
Lec 16 quiz
R
10/30
Lec. 17: Second Order Optimality Conditions
Lec 17 quiz
11
T
11/4
[10.5pt bold] Homework quiz #7 due
Hw quiz 7
T
11/4
Lec. 18: Root Finding & Line Search
Lec 18 quiz
R
11/6
Lec. 19: Steepest Descent Method
Lec 19 quiz
12
M
11/10
[10.5pt bold] Homework quiz #8 due
Hw quiz 8
T
11/11
[10.5pt bold] Exam 3 (6:00–7:30 PM Zoom)
Exam 3
R
11/13
Lec. 20: Newton’s Method
Lec 20 quiz
13
T
11/18
Lec. 21: Conjugate Direction Methods
Lec 21 quiz
R
11/20
[10.5pt bold] Homework quiz #9 due
Hw quiz 9
R
11/20
Lec. 22: FONC for Equality Constraints
Lec 22 quiz
[10.5pt bold] Week
[10.5pt bold] Date
[10.5pt bold] Topic
[10.5pt bold] Deliverable
[10.5pt bold] Part 4: Constrained Optimization
14
T
11/25
Lec. 23: Karush-Kuhn-Tucker Conditions
Lec 23 quiz
R
11/27
Thanksgiving Holiday
Celebrate!
15
T
12/2
[10.5pt bold] Homework quiz #10 due
Hw quiz 10
T
12/2
Lec. 24: Second Order Optimality Conditions
Lec 24 quiz
W
12/3
[10.5pt bold] Homework quiz #11 due
Hw quiz 11
R
12/4
[10.5pt bold] Exam 4 (6:00–8:00 PM Zoom)
Exam 4
17
T
12/16
[10.5pt bold] Optional Final Exam (1:00–3:00 PM / 6:00–
[10.5pt bold] 7:30 PM Zoom)
Final Exam
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[10.5pt bold] Course Format and Expectations
Section 700: The distance learning version of the course does not involve regular class
meetings, however, individual or group meetings with the instructor can be arranged by
appointment. You are expected to complete graded assignments (lecture quizzes,
homework quizzes, and exams) according to the schedule outlined in “Course Topics
and Schedule” section of this document (page 6). Each chapter of the course handbook
covers one lecture, with the material provided in the form of text and pointers to pre-
recorded videos of lectures available on YouTube and Google Drive.
[10.5pt bold] Expected Time Commitment
The course is structured in a way that requires timely attention to the material in order to
succeed. You are expected to allocate a similar amount of time to the course as you
would with a regular 3-credit on-campus course. More specifically, you are expected to
spend around 4.5 hours 1  per week attending the lectures or reviewing the videos of
lectures (the actual video files are shorter, taking into account the time for activities, such
as taking notes, during which you would pause the video). In addition to the lecture time,
you are expected to spend at least 9 hours per week on homework assignments, such
as reading the course manual, solving problems, and implementing and running
optimization models. You should be prepared to dedicate sufficient time in order to
master the material at the level that will benefit your professional career.
[10.5pt bold] Communication
The following means of communication will be used during the course: Canvas,
GroupMe, email, Zoom. The course website will be maintained through Canvas. This site
will contain all the required course materials, including the lecture notes, slides, software
packages used, homework assignments, quizzes, exams, and grades. Please check the
web site daily – you are expected to be aware of any information posted on it within 24
hours. You will need to use your TAMU NetId to log in. In addition, the course-related
discussions will be facilitated using a GroupMe chat. You are strongly encouraged to join
the course group (the link and the QR code are provided above). Communication via
GroupMe provides the quickest way of getting your questions concerning the course
answered.
All major announcements concerning the course will be communicated to the class via
email (in addition to announcements on Canvas and GroupMe). Zoom will be used for
proctoring the exams as well as office hours. You will be required to log in Zoom with
your Net ID and use video for exams. The exam sessions will be recorded.
1 An academic hour is 50 minutes.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
[11.0pt] Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
[11.0pt] Hours: 24/7
[11.0pt] Phone: (979) 845-8300
[11.0pt] Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
[11.0pt] Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
[11.0pt] Canvas LMS Technical Support
[11.0pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[11.0pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[11.0pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[11.0pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
[11.0pt] navigation menu.
[11.0pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] University Policies
[11.0pt] This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
[11.0pt] course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Senate established the wording of these policies.
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
[11.0pt] The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
[11.0pt] responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
[11.0pt] assignments.
[11.0pt] Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about excused
[11.0pt] absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
[11.0pt] Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
[11.0pt] when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
[11.0pt] Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
[11.0pt] Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
[11.0pt] including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[11.0pt] Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
[11.0pt] a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
[11.0pt] work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
[11.0pt] 7.4.1 ).
[11.0pt] “The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
[11.0pt] make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
[11.0pt] 7.4.2 ).
[11.0pt] Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
[11.0pt] Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
[11.0pt] “An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
[11.0pt] “Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
[11.0pt] submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
[11.0pt] the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
[11.0pt] appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
[11.0pt] instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
[11.0pt] case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
[11.0pt] You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
[11.0pt] academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
[11.0pt] learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
[11.0pt] community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
[11.0pt] applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
[11.0pt] sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
[11.0pt] disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
[11.0pt] complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
[11.0pt] and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
[11.0pt] Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
[11.0pt] Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
[11.0pt] accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
[11.0pt] discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
[11.0pt] admissions and employment.
[11.0pt] The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
[11.0pt] regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
[11.0pt] Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
[11.0pt] email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
[11.0pt] Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
[11.0pt] address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
[11.0pt] 3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
[11.0pt] and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
[11.0pt] discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
[11.0pt] pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
[11.0pt] information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
[11.0pt] includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
[11.0pt] sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
[11.0pt] Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
[11.0pt] learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
[11.0pt] Rights & Title IX webpage .
[11.0pt] Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
[11.0pt] health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
[11.0pt] experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
[11.0pt] discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
[11.0pt] who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
[11.0pt] report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
[11.0pt] opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
[11.0pt] disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
[11.0pt] office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
[11.0pt] limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
[11.0pt] conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
[11.0pt] with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
[11.0pt] To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
[11.0pt] your location:
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
[11.0pt] Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
[11.0pt] Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
[11.0pt] School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
[11.0pt] Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
[11.0pt] McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
[11.0pt] Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
[11.0pt] Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
[11.0pt] accommodations.
[11.0pt] Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
[11.0pt] Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
[11.0pt] 3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
[11.0pt] in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
[11.0pt] A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
[11.0pt] If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
[11.0pt] office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
[11.0pt] Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
[11.0pt] Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
[11.0pt] and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
[11.0pt] should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
[11.0pt] aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
[11.0pt] accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
[11.0pt] changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
[11.0pt] environment.
[11.0pt] Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
[11.0pt] lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
[11.0pt] equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
[11.0pt] pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
[11.0pt] influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
[11.0pt] encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
[11.0pt] services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
[11.0pt] Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
[11.0pt] anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
[11.0pt] hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
[11.0pt] Texas A&M College Station
[11.0pt] Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
[11.0pt] 979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
[11.0pt] experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
[11.0pt] emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
[11.0pt] 988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
[11.0pt] FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
[11.0pt] limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
[11.0pt] review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
[11.0pt] inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
[11.0pt] Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
[11.0pt] items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information Witholding
[11.0pt] Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records policy is
[11.0pt] available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
[11.0pt] Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
[11.0pt] security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
[11.0pt] be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
[11.0pt] of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
[11.0pt] Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
[11.0pt] address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
[11.0pt] attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
[11.0pt] institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
[11.0pt] officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
[11.0pt] residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
[11.0pt] Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
[11.0pt] is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
[11.0pt] has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
[11.0pt] accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
[11.0pt] civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
[11.0pt] and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
[11.0pt] learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
[11.0pt] website  about the  First Amendment.