<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[22.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 313 Syllabus
Section 594 (63927)
Introduction to Computer Systems
Fall 2025 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days:
Start Time: N/A
End Time: N/A
Start Date: 08/25/2025
End Date: 12/16/2025
Meeting Location:  ONLINE
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 11:35AM
End Time: 12:25PM
Start Date: 08/25/2025
End Date: 12/16/2025
Meeting Location:  ZACH 582
Credit Hours:  4
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Shawn Lupoli
Email:  proflupoli@cse.tamu.edu
Office:  N/A
Phone:  410-575-5423
Office Hours
By Appointment
Preferred Contact Method
email
[16.0pt] Course Description
[10.5pt] Credits 4. 3 Lecture Hours. 2 Lab Hours.  Introduction to system support for
[10.5pt] application programs, both on single node and over network including OS
[10.5pt] application interface, inter-process communication, introduction to system and
[10.5pt] network programming, and simple computer security concepts; hands-on lab
[10.5pt] assignments.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  CSCE 221 with a grade of C or better; grade of C or
better in CSCE 312 or concurrent enrollment in CSCE 350/ECEN 350 or
ECEN 350/CSCE 350.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Understand  what  system software is involved for an application program to run,
both on a single node and over a network, and how this system software is to be
used.
Perform system-level programming.
Use system components, such as memory, file systems, process control, inter-process
communication, and networking.
Understand problems and pitfalls encountered in the design and implementation of
multithreaded and networked applications and systems.
Use services provided by the underlying operating system by programming
directly at the operating system interface level. - Understand the following
aspects of a computer system:
What is an operating system?
What are the components of an operating system?
What are system calls and their purpose?
Execution of a program; function calls; interrupts.
The OS application interface, file system, and process control.
Inter-process communication
Concurrency, Threads, Process/Thread Synchronization
Network Socket Programming
Parallel and Distributed Computing
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Operating Systems Three Easy Pieces
ISBN:  9791156007395
Authors:  Remzi H.Arpaci-Dusseau
Publication Date:  2020-03-01
URL for Resource:
https://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/OSTEP/
This material Is: Recommended
Beej's Guide to Interprocess Communication
URL for Resource:
https://beej.us/guide/bgipc/html/split/
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
This course assumes that all work submitted by students will be generated by the students
themselves. Students should not have another person/entity do the writing of any
substantive portion of an assignment for them, which includes hiring a person or a company
to write assignments and using artificial intelligence tools like ChatGPT.
[11.0pt bold] Labs:
This portion of the class is face-to-face. Not every lab will have new content. Your
attendance is required to receive full credit for those that do. For those labs that do not have
content, they will be used for office hours. The TA will still be present at the same location.
[11.0pt bold] Exams:
There are two exams in this course. There are setup requirements explained  here  to stop
cheating. In general, please make sure you have the camera angle facing the monitor, your
keyboard and you in one frame. We may also be using GradeScope to collect your exam
[11.0pt bold] work. You will need to create a  free  account (if there is not one already created for you) and
add yourself to the class already established. You are required to create this account before
[11.0pt bold] the start of the first exam.  If neither of these requirements are not followed, you will
[11.0pt bold] receive a 0 for that exam.  Any exams missed with a University sanctioned excuse must be
made up within a week and is up to the student to schedule with the instructor.
[11.0pt bold] Submission of Work Policy :
[11.0pt bold] All assignments must be submitted  electronically  (not hard copies) using the
Canvas/Gradescope/GitHub system by the due date and time specified in the assignment.
Accepting electronic submission of assignments establishes the date and time of submission
[11.0pt bold] thus avoiding future contests.  E-mail submissions will not be accepted  (they will be ignored
[11.0pt bold] without notice). You will need to create a  free  GradeScope and GitHub account (if there is
not one already created for you) and add yourself to the class already established.
[11.0pt bold] Regrading Policy :
A student can request regrading of any graded material, if the student believes that the
points assigned are inconsistent with the quality and merits of the submitted work. To
request regrading the student needs to follow the guidelines below:
[11.0pt bold] 1. Regrading requests must be submitted to the instructor within  one week  after the
graded item has been returned (in hardcopy or electronically via eCampus) to the
student. After this time limit no re-grading requests will be honored.
2. Regrading requests must be in written form, accompanied by a reasonable amount of
specific justification and documentation.
[11.0pt bold] Canvas only  shows  the various grades for our class.  It does not always correctly calculate
[11.0pt bold] our final grades.  Your instructor will manually calculate the final grades using the syllabus
Grading Scale below. Ignore the grading “Tools” that the course management system
provides.
Standard Letter Grading Scale:
A >= 90% > B >= 80% > C >= 70% > D >= 60% > F
[10.5pt bold] Graded Assignment Percetage Breakdown
points
#
Total %
Participation
3
8 (best of 5)
15
Labs
7.5
6
40
Reading Assignment
3
6 (best of 5)
15
Midterm
15
1
15
Final
15
1
15
[11.0pt bold] Total:
[11.0pt bold] 100
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[11.0pt bold] Late submission or wrong submission  beyond the deadline will receive a 0, unless a
University sanctioned excuse is provided ahead of time. In general, late submission will NOT
[11.0pt bold] be accepted. “I forgot” or “my file was corrupted”  is not  an excuse. For this particular class,
no late work is accepted unless with a valid absence described above.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Class Schedule
Week
Topic
1
Unix System Overview
2
Processes
3
Process Attributes
4
Pipes and FIFO
5
Unix File IO
6
File System
7
Signals
8
Midterm Exam
9
Concurrency and Threads
10
Thread Synchronization - Part 1
11
Thread Synchronization - Part 2
12
Intro. to Networking
13
Routers, Switches, Packets and Frames
Network Programming
14
Intro. to Computer/Network Security
15
Packet Sniffing and Spoofing
Public Key Cryptography
16
Final Exam
[13.0pt] Important Dates:
https://aggie.tamu.edu/registration-and-records/classes/final-examination-schedules
Midterm (2 hour) - 10/2 - 9 p.m. – 11:00 p.m. - use normal Office Hours Zoom link
Final Exam (2 hours) - 12/15 - 6 p.m. - 8 p.m. - use normal Office Hours Zoom link
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[13.0pt] Lecture Schedule
For these particular sections, all lectures are online/asynchronous, but are based on a
weekly schedule. But all labs (covered below) are in person.
[13.0pt] Lab Schedule
All sections, no matter if the lecture is online or not, have FACE-TO-FACE labs each week.
Lab Schedule
Section
Time/Day
Location
CSCE-313-592
T/R @ 8:25 - 9:15
Zach 582
CSCE-313-593
T/R @ 9:35 - 10:25
Zach 582
CSCE-313-594
T/R @ 11:35 - 12:25
Zach 582
CSCE-313-595
T/R @ 12:45 - 1:35
Zach 582
CSCE-313-596
T/R @ 3:55 - 4:45
Zach 584
CSCE-313-597
T/R @ 2:35 - 3:25
Zach 584
CSCE-313-598
T/R @ 9:35 - 10:25
Zach 590
CSCE-313-599
T/R @ 8:25 - 9:15
Zach 590
*Please confirm with Howdy
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] Learning Resources
Peer Teachers  Visit  Peer Teacher Central
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Senate established the wording of these policies.
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
Class attendance is essential for student and group success; therefore students are required
to promptly and regularly attend all their lab sessions (since this is an online class). A record
of attendance will be maintained from the first day of classes and/or the first day the
students’ name appears on the roster through the final examinations and labs.
Absences may only be excused by the Texas A&M University Student Rules available
at  http://student-rules.tamu.edu/rule07 . Prior arrangements with the instructor must be
made when feasible and official verification of circumstances necessitating the absence will
be required.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate a period
of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up work should be
agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section 7.4.1 ).
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information Witholding
Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records policy is
available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the  First Amendment.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[12.0pt] According to the Texas A&M University Definitions of Academic
[12.0pt] Misconduct, plagiarism is the appropriation of another person's ideas,
[12.0pt] processes, results or words without giving appropriate credit
[12.0pt] (
[12.0pt] ). You should credit your use of anyone else's
[12.0pt] words, graphic images, or ideas using standard citation styles. Artificial
[12.0pt] Intelligence (AI) text generators and natural language processing tools
[12.0pt] (colloquially, chatbots - such as ChatGPT), audio, computer code, video,
[12.0pt] and image generators should not be used for any work for this class
[12.0pt] without explicit permission of the instructor and appropriate attribution.
[12.0pt] This includes, but is not limited to,
[12.0pt] i. Creating or revising drafts
[12.0pt] ii. Editing your work
[12.0pt] iii. Reviewing a peer's work
[12.0pt] This excludes pre-existing software additions such as spelling and
[12.0pt] grammar checkers, which are acceptable.
[12.0pt] aggiehonor.tamu.edu