<!-- body_font:9.5pt -->
[18.6pt] College of Engineering
[13.5pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[13.5pt] CSCE 430 Syllabus
Section 550 (58423)
Problem Solving Programming Strategies
Fall 2025 - College Station
[13.5pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: M
Start Time: 3:00PM
End Time: 5:30PM
Start Date: 08/25/2025
End Date: 12/16/2025
Meeting Location:  PMEC 242
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: W
Start Time: 3:00PM
End Time: 5:30PM
Start Date: 08/25/2025
End Date: 12/16/2025
Meeting Location:  PMEC 242
Credit Hours:  3
[13.5pt] Instructor Details
Unal Goktas
Email:  ugoktas@tamu.edu
Office:  Sea Aggie Center (SAGC) 706 (Galveston)
Phone:  409-740-5515
Office Hours
[10.1pt] link to office hours page
Preferred Contact Method
Email
[13.5pt] Course Description
This course teaches methods for analyzing fundamental programming problems from a variety of
domains and implementing solutions quickly and efficiently. The class will use problems based on
competitive programming contests to develop skills in problem analysis, coding, and testing. Solving
problems will involve identifying and applying a range of algorithmic solutions, including those dealing
with combinatorics, dynamic programming, graphs, numerical calculations, string processing, and
geometry, along with other more specialized algorithms.
[13.5pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  CSCE 411 or approval of instructor.
[13.5pt] Special Course Designation
None
[13.5pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Analyze a given programming problem to identify the algorithms needed to solve the problem
Implement a program, including implementing the basic algorithms needed, to solve specified
problems
Develop test cases that will ensure that implemented programs are robust to a full range of
valid inputs.
[13.5pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Competitive Programming 4 - Book 1
ISBN:  9781716745522
Authors:  Steven Halim, Felix Halim, Suhendry Effendy
Publication Date:  2018-12-03
Notes:
The book can be bought via the website:  https://cpbook.netLinks  to an
external site. . The 4th edition is in two separate books, available either in
paperback or as a PDF. We will cover almost everything in book 1, and will
cover parts of book 2.
[11.0pt] The textbook is considered required, in the sense that we will
[11.0pt] refer to it and you will be able to make use of it through the
[11.0pt] course. However, students in the past have been able to go
[11.0pt] through the course without buying it.
[11.0pt] See the note below about the required online system that will
[11.0pt] require a fee.
This material Is: Required
Competitive Programming 4 - Book 2
ISBN:  9781716745515
Authors:  Steven Halim, Felix Halim, Suhendry Effendy
Publication Date:  2020-07-18
Notes:
The book can be bought via the website:  https://cpbook.netLinks  to an
external site. . The 4th edition is in two separate books, available either in
paperback or as a PDF. We will cover almost everything in book 1, and will
cover parts of book 2.
[11.0pt] The textbook is considered required, in the sense that we will
[11.0pt] refer to it and you will be able to make use of it through the
[11.0pt] course. However, students in the past have been able to go
[11.0pt] through the course without buying it.
[11.0pt] See the note below about the required online system that will
[11.0pt] require a fee.
[13.5pt] Grading Policy
The course grades will consist of a large number of programming problems of varying difficulty and
topics given over the course of the semester. Problems will be assigned in 3 different ways:
Problem Sets:  Problems to be completed individually on the student’s own time. Generally,
individual problems will be assigned each week and due on Saturdays, unless the class agrees
on a different time. You should expect to spend several hours every week on your own, working
on these problems.
Labs (Individual):  Problems to be completed individually during the timed lab period. In each
lab period, students will be given a set of problems to be solved. These problems are meant to
be challenging, with the time pressure being a significant factor.
Labs (Team):  Problems to be completed on a team (usually of 2 people) during the timed lab
period. During some of the lab portions of the class, students may be teamed up with one or
two other students, and together they may be asked to complete problems during the lab
period. In this case, all students on the team will receive credit for problems completed.
For each set of problems, students will be given a “base” number of problems they are expected to
solve; there may be more problems given than that number, and students may solve more than the
base number, if they are able to do so. The total number of base problems over the course of the
semester should be in the range of 110-125. In all cases, completing a problem will mean that the
code passes a series of validated test data that the students will not be shown. Each problem will be
noted as either complete or incomplete by the given time (either the due date for the Problem Set or
the end of the timed lab period).
Problems completed after the deadline (i.e. after the submission time for weekly individual problems,
or outside of lab time during the timed period) can receive half credit. This is referred to as
“upsolving.” Students will have a limited period to upsolve these problems late for half credit; typically
this will be the Saturday one week following the original deadline.
The final grade in the course will be based on the percentage of problems solved by each student (i.e.
the number completed divided by the base number). That is, the number completed will be the
number of problems completed individually on their own time in problem sets, plus the number
completed individually or on a team within a timed lab period, plus half the number individually
upsolved (from problem sets or labs). The number possible will be the number of problems assigned
as a base for problem sets plus the number assigned as a base during the labs. All problems will be
weighted equally.
[12.7pt] Σ   PSet Problems Solved  +  Σ   Lab Problems Solved  + 0.5  Σ   Problems Upsolved
[12.7pt] Σ   PSet Base  +  Σ   Lab Base
[8.0pt] Formula for calculating the final percentage score for the course
To earn an A grade, a student must also get at least 50% of the base points for the problems to be
completed individually on their own time (in problem sets), in every week of the class. This can include
points for solving during the week, or later upsolving of the problems.
[11.8pt] ∀ PSets :
[9.8pt] PSet Problems Solved  + 0.5 ·  PSet Problems Upsolved
[9.8pt] PSet Base
[12.4pt] ≥  0.5
[8.0pt] Additional condition for A-grade eligibility, requiring a minimum 50% score on each weekly problem set
The grading scale will be:
A = 90 % or greater,  and  at least 50% of available problems in individual weeks
B = 80-89 %
C = 70-79 %
D = 60-69 %
F = <60 %
[13.5pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not considered late work
and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[13.5pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
The deadlines for submission will be set automatically and are strict. Note, however, that the upsolve
period allows for solving problems following the due date.
[13.5pt] Course Schedule
[10.1pt] The following is the expected schedule, including some of the types of algorithms that are
[10.1pt] expected to be covered each week. However, as the semester goes on, this will likely be
[10.1pt] adjusted.
[10.1pt bold] Week
[10.1pt bold] Topic
[10.1pt bold] Chapters
[10.1pt] 1
[10.1pt] Introduction; Problem formats; Online judging systems; Parsing
[10.1pt] Input; Formatting Output
[10.1pt] 1
[10.1pt] 2-4
[10.1pt] Fundamental Data Structures and their implementation on your
[10.1pt] own or in libraries (various trees, sets, graphs, search structures)
[10.1pt] 2
[10.1pt] 5-7
[10.1pt] Applying Divide and Conquer, Greedy, and Dynamic Programming
[10.1pt] Approaches
[10.1pt] 3
[10.1pt] 8-11
[10.1pt] Applying Graph Algorithms (search, shortest path, minimum
[10.1pt] spanning tree, network flow, bipartite graph matching)
[10.1pt] 4, 8.4-8.5
[10.1pt] 12
[10.1pt] String Processing (editing, edit distance, subsequences, suffixes)
[10.1pt] 6
[10.1pt] 13
[10.1pt] Applying Numerical algorithms and Combinatorics (GCD, LCM,
[10.1pt] Chinese Remainder Theorem and modular math, Large number
[10.1pt] computations, generating and counting permutations and
[10.1pt] combinations)
[10.1pt] 5
[10.1pt] 14
[10.1pt] Applications of Geometric Algorithms (2D line segment and polygon
[10.1pt] queries – intersection, area; calculations on a sphere; 3D volume
[10.1pt] calculations; ray-surface intersection; convex hull; spatial
[10.1pt] subdivisions)
[10.1pt] 7
[10.1pt] ?
[10.1pt] Selected additional algorithms and their application (if time allows)
[10.1pt] 8-9
[13.5pt] Additional Course Information
Fee for Online System
We will be using the Kattis system (see Online Judging below) for problem judging. This system has a
$25 fee associated with it that you will be required to pay, and may not be refundable.
Online Judging
Online judging systems will be used to perform the testing and acceptance of solutions to problems.
This will require students to obtain a user account on these external systems. The Kattis system
(tamu.kattis.com) will be the main system used, but others might be used on occasion. Students are
expected to keep their login information private, as they would for a department computer system.
The online system’s judgment will be the sole factor determining whether problems are accepted or
not, and this will generally mean passing all test cases (not just some) for the problem.
Communication
We will use Canvas for the course materials. Canvas will be used to post and answer critical
questions, to make course announcements, etc. Grades will be posted on Canvas, though the actual
submission and grading will be through the Kattis system. Students are responsible for checking
Canvas regularly for communications and occasionally verifying that grading matches their Kattis
judgments. We may also use a Discord-based system to allow for getting help and contacting TAs and
the instructor more easily; using this is optional, but would provide an easier route for getting
assistance.
Limitations on Anonymity
The course will use a competitive programming framework for judging and posting results of all
problem sets. This means that students will be able to see an indication of which problems other
students have attempted, and their success or lack of success in having these accepted. While there
can be the option of hiding the specific user name, students cannot expect their performance to be
kept completely anonymous from others, and it may be that other individuals can determine their
performance on problem sets either by process of elimination, or from other information they
determine from the competitive system.
Source Code Presentations
Some problems worked on may have multiple solutions, and throughout the course, individuals’ work
might be used as examples for illustrating approaches to solving a problem, writing code, etc.
Students may be called on to describe their own solution to a problem or the approach they tried;
advance warning will be given in such cases with students given the opportunity to opt-out of
presenting. Alternately, students’ code may be used as an example shown to other students for how
a given solution might be coded; code presented this way will be kept anonymous unless the student
has first agreed to let it be presented.
Also, see the discussion below regarding individual discussion of code with the instructor in order to
verify that an academic honesty violation did not occur.
Computers
You will need to use your own computer for programming and submitting assignments, including
during lab. Students will need to bring their own laptop to the Friday lab sessions. The laptop should
be set up with necessary compilers/software, or access to shared/online sources, sufficient to enable
to students to write and test their own computer programs.
Schedule
As noted, the lab times should not be considered optional. You are expected to attend labs in-person
on Fridays, and may not submit to the lab outside of the classroom. Missing a lab or leaving early is
allowed, but will result in missing the opportunity to earn points from solving problems during that
time period; unless the absence is excused, it will add to your base points.
We will not have a final exam nor have any lab during final exam time. The time slated for the final
exam will be the final deadline for turning in any upsolved problems or other work in the course.
Course-Specific Academic Integrity Policies
Please read the following course-specific policies carefully. These are an extension of the university's
official  Academic Integrity Statement and Policy  detailed in the section below.
For this course, a significant amount of work will require solving problems for which a solution or test
data might be available or posted online. Unless otherwise specified, students are  not allowed  to seek
out or examine code/data for these problems on their own, prior to turning in their own solutions.
Likewise, students should not read explanations of how to solve a specific problem prior to the
original due date (i.e. the original deadline); note that reading a  description  of the solution  is  allowed
for problems solved after the deadline for half credit (i.e. during upsolving) . Accessing unallowed
information will be considered a violation of the honor code, and students caught doing so will be
referred to the honor council, regardless of whether the actual code is copied or not.
Likewise,  the use of LLM-based (like GitHub Copilot, ChatGPT, etc.) or any similar code
generators is not allowed at any point for this class . The purpose of this class is for you to
understand how to write the code yourself.
Students may be asked to meet with the instructor individually to discuss how their code
works, and/or demonstrate how they coded their solution.  Students who are unable to do so
satisfactorily may be assumed to have used an unauthorized source and may be reported to the
honor council.
Given the ease with which it may be possible to cheat in these ways, any violations should expect to
receive the maximum penalty from the honor council.
[13.5pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[13.5pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each course syllabus. The
TAMU Faculty Senate established the wording of these policies.
[13.5pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student responsibility.
Students are expected to attend class and to complete all assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about excused absences, including
definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[13.5pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
Here are clarifications regarding how excused absences will be handled. Students missing a timed
individual or team lab for an excused reason will not have the base score for that period used in their
grade calculation (i.e. the base score will be 0); however, any problems upsolved later for half credit
will add to both the base (as half a problem) and the solved portions of the grade. For the individual
problems that students do on their own time (i.e. weekly problem sets), it is expected that students
will work on these problems throughout the period of time they are assigned, so that any absences of
less than 2 days should not affect the student’s ability to complete the problems on time. If the
student has an excused absence of more than 2 days during the period for which the problems are
assigned, the student will be given a number of days equal to the length of the excused absence, less
two days, following the original due date or the student’s return (whichever is later). For example, a
student who is sick for 4 days during a week would have the deadline for individual problems
extended by 2 days. Note that the period for upsolving problems after the deadline for half credit
might not be extended, since coded solutions might be posted at that time.
[13.5pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or when attendance
contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed
appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work, including definitions,
and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate a period of more
than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up work should be agreed upon by the
student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section 7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to make up work
missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section 7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie Honor Code and
Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[13.5pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work submitted to an
instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that the item submitted is indeed the
work of that student. Students must keep appropriate records at all times. The inability to
authenticate one’s work, should the instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an
academic misconduct case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures, academic integrity,
and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[13.5pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory learning, living, and work
environments for all members of the University community. The University provides equal
opportunity to all employees, students, applicants for employment or admission, and the public,
regardless of race, color, sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin,
age, disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all complaints of
discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity, and related retaliation based on
a protected class in accordance with  System Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,
Standard Administrative Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not discriminate on the
basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints regarding the non-
discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP & Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108,
College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options,
visit the  U.S. Department of Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate
the address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-3481.
[13.5pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe and productive for
all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit discrimination and harassment based on an
individual’s race, color, sex, (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment, sexual exploitation,
dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or learn more about
their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental health providers)
are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe, experience or become aware of an
incident that they reasonably believe to be discrimination/harassment alleged to have been
committed by or against a person who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the
employee must report the incident to the university.
[13.5pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning opportunities for all
students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a disability or think you may have a
disability, please contact the Disability Resources office on your campus (resources listed below).
Disabilities may include, but are not limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical,
or chronic health conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs with
Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma Rangel College of
Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of Public Health, Institute of Biosciences
and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush School in Washington DC, Mays Business School –
CityCentre, TAMU Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability Resources at (979)
845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student Affairs at (817) 212-
4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the Disability Resource
Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to
request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences in Canyon should
contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-
2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the office
responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA Coordinator Julie Kuder at
ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[13.5pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy and/or related
conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students should contact the University’s
Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become aware of the need for accommodation. Depending
on the circumstances, accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or
exams, changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of lactation space, and
maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and equitable resolution of complaints of
sex discrimination. For information regarding pregnancy accommodations, email
TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[13.5pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors influencing a
student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are encouraged to engage in healthy self-
care practices by utilizing the resources and services available through  University Health Services . The
TELUS Health Student Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-hour emergency
support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at 979.458.4584. Call 911 or
visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently experiencing a life-threatening situation or if
your safety is at risk. 24-hour emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis
Lifeline (988) or at  988lifeline.org .
[13.5pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act
[13.5pt] (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by limiting access to
these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and review their educational records, and
to provide guidelines for the correction of inaccurate and misleading data through informal and
formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information items can do so
within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information Witholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice
to Students  and the student records policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social security number,
citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will be made in this class to protect your
privacy and to ensure confidential treatment of information associated with or generated by your
participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email address, local telephone
number, permanent telephone number, dates of attendance, program of study (college, major,
campus), classification, previous institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received,
participation in officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[13.5pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse is critical to
academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university has an aspirational expectation
that such discourse will be conducted in accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of
ideas,” we encourage civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their
ideas and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can learn more
about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's website  about the  First
Amendment.