<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[22.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Industrial and Systems Engineering
[16.0pt] ISEN 440 Syllabus
Section 500 (51374)
Systems Thinking
Fall 2025 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 10:20AM
End Time: 11:35AM
Start Date: 08/25/2025
End Date: 12/16/2025
Meeting Location:  ETB 1027
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Lewis Ntaimo
Email:  ntaimo@tamu.edu
Office:  ETB 4008
Phone:  979-845-5545
Office Hours
MW 3pm-4pm, other times by appointment
Preferred Contact Method
Email
Webpage:  https://engineering.tamu.edu/industrial/people/lntaimo
Biography
[13.0pt] https://engineering.tamu.edu/industrial/people/lntaimo
[16.0pt] Course Description
Systems thinking process, systems of systems and the fundamental considerations associated
with the engineering of large-scale systems, or systems engineering including systems
modeling, design and the system development process.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in MATH 304; junior or senior
classification.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
LO 1. Understand the anatomy of engineered systems and their complex
interactions.
LO 2. Formulate, analyze, and interpret issues associated with engineered
systems.
LO 3. Use systems thinking techniques and software tools necessary for
systems engineering
practice.
LO 4. Model and analyze engineered systems using systems engineering
tools.
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
The Engineering Design of Systems
ISBN:  9781118210376
Authors:  Dennis M. Buede
Publisher:  John Wiley & Sons
Publication Date:  2011-09-20
This material Is: Recommended
Systems Engineering Principles and Practice
ISBN:  9781119516675
Authors:  Alexander Kossiakoff, Steven M. Biemer,
Samuel J. Seymour, David A. Flanigan
Publisher:  John Wiley & Sons
Publication Date:  2020-06-11
[16.0pt] Additional Instructional Materials
This Material is: Optional
Systems Thinking
ISBN:  9780750679732
Authors:  Jamshid Gharajedaghi
Publisher:  Butterworth-Heinemann
Publication Date:  2006-01-01
This Material is: Optional
Advanced Systems Thinking, Engineering, and
Management
ISBN:  9781580536202
Authors:  Derek K. Hitchins
Publisher:  Artech House
Publication Date:  2003-01-01
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
The graded items for the course are as follows:
[11.0pt bold] Assignment  Due Date Topics Covered Percent Grade
Quizzes Weekly 10%
Exam 1  Sep 29th Modules 1, 2, and 3 15%
Exam 2  Oct 29th Modules 4 and 5 25%
Exam 3  (Final)  Dec 15th Modules 5, 6, 7 and 8 25%
Course Project Dec 9th  25%
Letter grades will be assigned as follows: A for 90% - 100%, B for 80% - 89.9%, C for 70% -
79.9%, D for 60% - 69.9%, F for below 60%. This course covers standard material on systems
engineering and there is usually no curve on grades. Any disagreements regarding a grade
received on any graded material must be discussed within two business days of the return of
the graded material. No grade will be changed beyond the two business days limit. Scores will
be maintained in the Gradebook within Canvas.
The exams will be conducted in the classroom (ETB 1027) in person. The student is required
to abide by the Aggie Honor Code. The format of the exams is closed-book (closed
everything!), multiple choice, and short-answer questions. Graded tests will not be returned
to the students; however, students can request to go over their test answers with the
instructor during office hours of the week following posting of the exam scores.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
No late work (e.g., submitting a quiz assignment after the established deadline) will be
accepted. Late work will be assigned a score of zero .
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
W eek
T opic
R eading
[10.0pt bold] Week 1,
[10.0pt bold] 8/25/25
[10.0pt] Course Overview
[10.0pt] Module 1: Intro to
[10.0pt] Systems Thinking &
[10.0pt] Engineering
[10.0pt] Lecture Notes;
[10.0pt] Kossiakoff, Ch. 1, 2; Buede, Ch. 1
[10.0pt bold] Week 2,
[10.0pt bold] 9/03/25
[10.0pt] Module 2: Structure
[10.0pt] of Complex Systems
[10.0pt] Lecture Notes; Kossiakoff, Ch. 3
[10.0pt bold] Week 3,
[10.0pt bold] 9/08/25
[10.0pt] Module 2: Structure
[10.0pt] of Complex Systems
[10.0pt] Lecture Notes; Kossiakoff, Ch. 3
[10.0pt bold] Week 4,
[10.0pt bold] 9/15/25
[10.0pt] Module 3: Set
[10.0pt] Theory
[10.0pt] Lecture Notes; Buede, Ch. 4
[10.0pt bold] Week 5,
[10.0pt bold] 9/22/25
[10.0pt] Module 3: Set
[10.0pt] Theory
[10.0pt] Lecture Notes; Buede, Ch. 4
[10.0pt bold] 9/29/25
[10.0pt bold] Exam 1
[10.0pt] Modules 1, 2 and 3
[10.0pt bold] Week 6,
[10.0pt bold] 10/01/25
[10.0pt] Module 4: Systems
[10.0pt] Modeling
[10.0pt] Lecture Notes; Buede, Ch. 4
[10.0pt bold] Week 7,
[10.0pt bold] 10/06/25
[10.0pt] Module 4: Systems
[10.0pt] Modeling
[10.0pt] Lecture Notes; Buede, Ch. 4
[10.0pt bold] Week 8,
[10.0pt bold] 10/15/25
[10.0pt] Module 4: Systems
[10.0pt] Modeling
[10.0pt] Lecture Notes; Buede, Ch. 4
[10.0pt bold] Week 9,
[10.0pt bold] 10/20/25
[10.0pt] Module 5: Theory of
[10.0pt] Systems Design
[10.0pt] Lecture Notes; Buede, Ch. 6
W eek
T opic
R eading
[10.0pt bold] Week 10,
[10.0pt bold] 10/27/25
[10.0pt] Module 5: Theory of
[10.0pt] Systems Design
[10.0pt] Lecture Notes; Buede, Ch. 6
[10.0pt bold] 10/29/25
[10.0pt bold] Exam 2
[10.0pt] Modules 4 and 5
[10.0pt bold] Week 12,
[10.0pt bold] 11/03/25
[10.0pt] Module 6: Systems
[10.0pt] Thinking Concepts
[10.0pt] and Tools
[10.0pt] Lecture Notes; Hitchins, Ch. 1,8,9;
[10.0pt] Gharajedaghi, Ch. 2
[10.0pt bold] Week 13,
[10.0pt bold] 11/10/25
[10.0pt] Module 6: Systems
[10.0pt] Thinking Concepts
[10.0pt] and Tools
[10.0pt] Lecture Notes; Hitchins, Ch. 1,8,9;
[10.0pt] Gharajedaghi, Ch.
[10.0pt bold] Week 11,
[10.0pt bold] 11/17/25
[10.0pt] Module 7: Systems
[10.0pt] Engineering
[10.0pt] Software Tools: UML
[10.0pt] Lecture Notes;
[10.0pt bold] Week 3,
[10.0pt bold] 11/24/25
[10.0pt] Module 8: The
[10.0pt] System Engineering
[10.0pt] Process
[10.0pt] Lecture Notes; Kossiakoff, Ch. 4-10
[10.0pt bold] Week 4,
[10.0pt bold] 12/01/25
[10.0pt] Module 8: The
[10.0pt] System Engineering
[10.0pt] Process
[10.0pt] 2 Lecture Notes; Kossiakoff, Ch. 4-10
[10.0pt bold] Week 14,
[10.0pt bold] 12/08/25
[10.0pt] Final Review,
[10.0pt] Students Finalize
[10.0pt] their Project Reports
[10.0pt] Lecture Notes
[10.0pt bold] 12/09/25,
[10.0pt bold] Due 4:00 pm
[10.0pt bold] Course Project
[10.0pt bold] Report
[10.0pt bold] 12/15/25,
[10.0pt bold] 8:00 am-
[10.0pt bold] 10:00 am
[10.0pt bold] Exam 3 (Final)
[10.0pt] Modules 6, 7 and 8
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[14.0pt] Course Project
Students will be placed in teams of three to five students, and each team will work on a
challenging real-life societal problem. The team will apply the systems engineering approach
to model, analyze and design a system model to address the problem. Student teams will
organize their own weekly meetings. The team will select one (1) problem out of three (3)
problems from the Course Project assignment (available on Canvas) based on their research
interests. The team shall write a proposal (Proposal Template available on Canvas) subject to
instructor approval. The project work will culminate into a final report that will be submitted
for grading at the end of the semester. Students will learn to use systems modeling software
(available online) to develop their systems engineering documents (Unified Modeling
Language - UML) for the project.
[14.0pt] Software
For Module 7, students will find and learn to use a freely available online Unified Modeling
Language (UML) systems modeling software.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Senate established the wording of these policies.
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
Attendance is required.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information Witholding
Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records policy is
available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the  First Amendment.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
AI text generators (ChatGPT, Google Bard, etc.) should not be used for any work for this class
without explicit permission of the instructor and appropriate attribution.