<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[22.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Industrial and Systems Engineering
[16.0pt] ISEN 620 Syllabus
Section 700 (14035)
Survey of Optimization
Fall 2025 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:
Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: Asynchronous
Start Time: N/A
End Time: N/A
Start Date: 08/25/2025
End Date: 12/16/2025
Meeting Location:  ONLINE
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Sergiy Butenko
Email:  butenko@tamu.edu
Office:  ETB 4037
Phone:  979-458-2333
Office Hours
TR 10:00-11:00 AM or by appointment
[16.0pt] Course Description
This is an introductory course discussing theory and numerical methods for
deterministic linear and nonlinear optimization. Topics to be discussed include
linear programming, unconstrained and constrained nonlinear optimization,
including classical optimality conditions and numerical algorithms.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  MATH 304 or MATH 311.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
[11.0pt bold] Analyze  and  apply  linear and nonlinear programming theory and algorithms.
[11.0pt bold] Formulate  linear and nonlinear optimization models from real-world problems.
[11.0pt bold] Solve  small-scale optimization problems by hand and  utilize  optimization software to
solve large-scale problems.
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Course Handbook
URL for Resource:
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1KOF0V8vKpe1CiqwJAJ24
9Ubqrsqv-IXw/view?usp=sharing
This material Is: Recommended
Numerical Methods and Optimization
ISBN:  9781466577787
Authors:  Sergiy Butenko, Panos M. Pardalos
Publisher:  CRC Press
Publication Date:  2014-03-11
Notes:
The course manual with all the materials required for
successful completion of the course is provided. In
addition, it is recommended (but not required) to have
at least one reference text covering linear and nonlinear
optimization, such as Numerical Methods and
Optimization: An Introduction by Butenko and Pardalos,
ISBN: 978-1466577770 or Linear and Nonlinear
Optimization by Griva, Nash and Sofer, ISBN 978-0-
898716-61-0. Additional references: Introduction to
Mathematical Programming by Winston and
Venkataramanan, Fourth Edition, Duxbury; Linear
Programming and Network Flows by Bazarra, Jarvis and
Sherali, Second Edition, Wiley; An Introduction to
Optimization by Chong and Zak, Second Edition, Wiley.
[16.0pt] Additional Instructional Materials
This Material is: Required
Software and Computing Resources
Notes:
The course is computing-intensive. The required advanced optimization software
(AMPL) will be made available for download on Canvas (for Windows, Mac, and
Linux). You must ensure access to a computer that runs AMPL and Excel (or a
compatible spreadsheet application with Solver add-on).
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
All graded assignments will be open book/notes and must be completed via Canvas.
It is crucial that all the graded work is completed on your own, in accordance with
the Aggie Honor Code and the rules specified for each assignment. Any violations of
academic integrity rules will result in severe penalties, such as F ∗  for the course and
report to the honor council. A preliminary, automatically generated grade will
appear on Canvas immediately upon submission of your work, however, this grade
may not be final, as some assignments will require submitting additional materials
(such as a scan of your work and/or computer codes) for grading.
There will be the total of 40 graded assignments, described next.
•  4 Exams – 20% each. The exams will be open book/notes. Each exam will be
proctored to maintain scholastic integrity of the program. The instructor will provide
Zoom proctoring. If the exam dates/times specified in the detailed schedule below
do not work for you, you should notify the instructor no later than Friday preceding
the first exam, so that alternative arrangements can be made.
•  11 Homework Quizzes – 15%. The homework quizzes will be conducted via
Canvas, no proctor is required. The quizzes will be based on the practice problems,
solutions to which are provided in the course handbook (“Solution Manual”
chapter). The quizzes will be timed, but you will have the flexibility to take them any
time before the midnight of the quiz date specified in the course schedule.
• 25 Lecture Quizzes – 5%. Lecture quizzes are based on the videos of lectures and
should be taken according to the schedule at page 6.
The final letter grades will be calculated using the formula
weighted average = 0.05(lec quiz average)+0.15(hw quiz average)+0.8(exam
average)
and will be assigned as follows. A: [90,100], B: [80,90), C: [70,80), D: [60,70), F: [0,60).
Optional Final Exam will be offered as a chance to improve your final grade. The
exam will consist of the problems of the same types as the four exams given during
the semester. You will be able to choose which problems to solve. You will have two
hours to complete the exam, and the score for each problem you attempt will
replace the score you obtained for the problem of the same type in the original
exam (whenever the new score is higher).
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
While you are expected to follow the schedule above for best learning outcomes,
the due dates are not strictly enforced. Late submissions will not be penalized, as
long as they are completed before the exam covering the corresponding material. If
an exam is missed, you must contact the instructor as soon as possible with a
written authorized excuse. Make up exams will be given in accordance with
University Rules (see Rule 7 at  http://student-rules.tamu.edu ).
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Date
[11.0pt bold] Topic
[11.0pt bold] Deliverable
1
[11.0pt bold] Part 1: LP Basics
T 8/26
Lec. 1: Introduction
Lec 1 quiz
R 8/28
Lec. 2: Introduction to Optimization
Software
Lec 2 quiz
2
T 9/2
Lec. 3: LP Modeling
Lec 3 quiz
R 9/4
Lec. 4: LP Assumptions and Graphical
Method
Lec 4 quiz
3
T 9/9
[11.0pt bold] Homework quiz #1 due
Hw quiz 1
T 9/9
Lec. 5: Simplex Method: An Introduction   Lec 5 quiz
R 9/11
Lec. 6: Simplex Method: Termination &
Initialization
Lec 6 quiz
4
T 9/16
[11.0pt bold] Homework quiz #2 due
Hw quiz 2
T 9/16
Lec. 7: Analysis of the Simplex Method
Lec 7 quiz
R 9/18
[11.0pt bold] Homework quiz #3 due
Hw quiz 3
R 9/18
[11.0pt bold] Exam 1 (6:00–7:30 PM Zoom)
Exam 1
5
[11.0pt bold] Part 2: Duality and Sensitivity Analysis, IP Modeling
T 9/23
Lec. 8: LP Duality: Introduction
Lec 8 quiz
R 9/25
Lec. 9: Complementary Slackness
Lec 9 quiz
6
T 9/30
Lec. 10: Simplex Method in Matrix Form   Lec 10 quiz
R 10/2
[11.0pt bold] Homework quiz #4 due
Hw quiz 4
R 10/2
Lec. 11: Sensitivity Analysis
Lec 11 quiz
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Date
[11.0pt bold] Topic
[11.0pt bold] Deliverable
7
T 10/7
Lec. 12: Sensitivity Analysis
Lec 12 quiz
R 10/9
[11.0pt bold] Homework quiz #5 due
Hw quiz 5
R 10/9
Lec. 13: IP Modeling
Lec 13 quiz
No
Class
T 10/14
Fall Break
Deep breath
8
R 10/16
Lec. 14: IP Modeling
Lec 14 quiz
M 10/20
[11.0pt bold] Homework quiz #6 due
Hw quiz 6
T 10/21
[11.0pt bold] Exam 2 (6:00–7:30 PM Zoom)
Exam 2
9
R 10/23
Lec. 15: Nonlinear Opt.: Preliminaries
Lec 15 quiz
[11.0pt bold] Part 3: Unconstrained Optimization
T 10/28
Lec. 16: FONC for Unconstrained
Problems
Lec 16 quiz
10
R 10/30
Lec. 17: Second Order Optimality
Conditions
Lec 17 quiz
T 11/4
[11.0pt bold] Homework quiz #7 due
Hw quiz 7
T 11/4
Lec. 18: Root Finding & Line Search
Lec 18 quiz
11
R 11/6
Lec. 19: Steepest Descent Method
Lec 19 quiz
M 11/10
[11.0pt bold] Homework quiz #8 due
Hw quiz 8
T 11/11
[11.0pt bold] Exam 3 (6:00–7:30 PM Zoom)
Exam 3
12
R 11/13
Lec. 20: Newton’s Method
Lec 20 quiz
T 11/18
Lec. 21: Conjugate Direction Methods
Lec 21 quiz
13
R 11/20
[11.0pt bold] Homework quiz #9 due
Hw quiz 9
R 11/20
Lec. 22: FONC for Equality Constraints
Lec 22 quiz
[11.0pt bold] Part 4: Constrained Optimization
T 11/25
Lec. 23: Karush-Kuhn-Tucker
Conditions
Lec 23 quiz
No
Class
R 11/27
Thanksgiving Holiday
Celebrate!
14
T 12/2
[11.0pt bold] Homework quiz #10 due
Hw quiz 10
T 12/2
Lec. 24: Second Order Optimality
Conditions
Lec 24 quiz
W 12/3
[11.0pt bold] Homework quiz #11 due
Hw quiz 11
R 12/4
[11.0pt bold] Exam 4 (6:00–8:00 PM Zoom)
Exam 4
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Date
[11.0pt bold] Topic
[11.0pt bold] Deliverable
15
T 12/16
[11.0pt bold] Optional Final Exam (1:00–3:00 PM /
[11.0pt bold] 6:00–7:30 PM Zoom)
Final Exam
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
Course Format and Expectations
Section 700: The distance learning version of the course does not involve regular
class meetings, however, individual or group meetings with the instructor can be
arranged by appointment. You are expected to complete graded assignments
(lecture quizzes, homework quizzes, and exams) according to the schedule outlined
in “Course Topics and Schedule” section of this document (page 6). Each chapter of
the course handbook covers one lecture, with the material provided in the form of
text and pointers to pre-recorded videos of lectures available on YouTube and
Google Drive.
Expected Time Commitment
The course is structured in a way that requires timely attention to the material in
order to succeed. You are expected to allocate a similar amount of time to the
course as you would with a regular 3-credit on-campus course. More specifically,
you are expected to spend around 4.5 hours 1  per week attending the lectures or
reviewing the videos of lectures (the actual video files are shorter, taking into
account the time for activities, such as taking notes, during which you would pause
the video). In addition to the lecture time, you are expected to spend at least 9
hours per week on homework assignments, such as reading the course manual,
solving problems, and implementing and running optimization models. You should
be prepared to dedicate sufficient time in order to master the material at the level
that will benefit your professional career.
Communication
The following means of communication will be used during the course: Canvas,
GroupMe, email, Zoom. The course website will be maintained through Canvas. This
site will contain all the required course materials, including the lecture notes, slides,
software packages used, homework assignments, quizzes, exams, and grades.
Please check the web site daily – you are expected to be aware of any information
posted on it within 24 hours. You will need to use your TAMU NetId to log in. In
addition, the course-related discussions will be facilitated using a GroupMe chat.
You are strongly encouraged to join the course group (the link and the QR code are
provided above). Communication via GroupMe provides the quickest way of getting
your questions concerning the course answered.
All major announcements concerning the course will be communicated to the class
via email (in addition to announcements on Canvas and GroupMe). Zoom will be
used for proctoring the exams as well as office hours. You will be required to log in
Zoom with your Net ID and use video for exams. The exam sessions will be
recorded.
1 An academic hour is 50 minutes.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Senate established the wording of these policies.
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information Witholding
Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records policy is
available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the  First Amendment.