<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[22.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 482 Syllabus
Section 932 (46010)
Senior Capstone Design
Fall 2025 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
[12.0pt] Location: EABA 118
[12.0pt] Time: Tue/Thr 2:20 P.M. to 12:45 P.M.  (Lecture) and Tue/Thr 2:50 P.M.
[12.0pt] to 5:20 P.M. (Lab)
[12.0pt] Credit hours: 3
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Dylan Shell
Email:  dshell@tamu.edu
Office:  PETR 315
Phone:  979) 845-2369
Office Hours
Walk-ins: Wednesdays 1:00  P.M.  to 2:00  P.M.  and also: by appointment.
[16.0pt] Course Description
This is a project-based course focusing on skills for system integration in order to
solve real-world problems in computer science. It involves a significant team
software project that integrates advanced concepts across computer science
specializations, requiring the whole process from design, implementation,
documentation and demonstration, as well as establishing a design methodology,
management process and team management. Emphasis is placed upon student's
activities as design professionals.
Detailed Description
CSCE 482 is a project-oriented course aimed at developing system integration skills.
Students work in groups of 3-6 people to complete a significant software
engineering design project. Every project requires complete implementation,
documentation and demonstration of a software system, which may also involve
minor hardware too. The focus is not only on the final product but also on design
methodology, management process and teamwork.
Each team will be required to manage its own efforts to complete its project in a
timely manner. Group members will be required to keep individual lab notebooks
recording their efforts and their personal impressions of the project. Students will
be graded based on both the quality of the group product and their individual
contributions.
Every team will be required to schedule a weekly meeting with the course
instructor and the TA, preferably during the official class or lab hours. These
meetings must be attended by every group member. Since the projects will be
student managed, the exact nature and style of these meetings is at the group’s
discretion. However, every member of the group is expected to participate. At the
end of the semester, each group will make a public presentation describing and
demonstrating their work. These presentations will be open to the university
community and visitors from industry.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 411, and CSCE 315 or
CSCE 331; senior classification; also taught at Galveston campus.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
UCRT - University Required Oral Communication
This is communication intensive (C) course.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Course Objectives
To prepare students for engineering practice with a major design experience based
on the knowledge and skills acquired in earlier course work and incorporating
standards and realistic constraints that include most of the following
considerations: economic; environmental; sustainability; manufacturability; ethical;
health and safety; social; and political.
Course Learning Outcomes
It is expected that successful participation in the course will allow the student to
demonstrate:
• an ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science, and engineering (3.a)
• an ability to design and conduct experiments, as well as to analyze and interpret
data (3.b)
• an ability to design a system, component, or process to meet desired needs (3.c)
• an ability to function on multi-disciplinary teams (3.d)
• an ability to identify, formulate, and solve engineering problems (3.e)
• an understanding of professional and ethical responsibility (3.f)
• an ability to communicate effectively (3.g)
• an ability to use the techniques, skills, and modern engineering tools necessary
for engineering practice (3.k)
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
The Five Dysfunctions of a Team
ISBN:  9781118179154
Authors:  Patrick M. Lencioni
Publisher:  John Wiley & Sons
Publication Date:  2011-12-19
Notes:
( Electronic copy available to all via the library)
This material Is: Optional
Design for Electrical and Computer Engineers: Theory
Concepts and Practice
Authors:  Ralph Ford, Chris Coulston
Publisher:  Learning Solutions
Publication Date:  2005-03-31
This material Is: Optional
Fundamentals of Engineering Design
ISBN:  9780135313855
Authors:  Barry Hyman, Barry I. Hyman
Publication Date:  1998-01-01
This material Is: Optional
Software Engineering
ISBN:  9780073019338
Authors:  Roger S. Pressman
Publisher:  Palgrave Macmillan
Publication Date:  2005-01-01
This material Is: Optional
The Art of Agile Development
ISBN:  9780596527679
Authors:  James Shore, Shane Warden
Publisher:  "O'Reilly Media, Inc."
Publication Date:  2008-01-01
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
The final grade you will receive in the class will be based on points accumulated
during the semester. Thus, both continued progress (the process) and the quality of
your product (and other deliverables) will determine your grade. Although the
majority of your grade (55%) is based on the performance of your team, individual
performance will also be closely evaluated.
The grading scale is:
A 90-100
B 80-89
C 70-79
D 60-69
F 59 or below.
[12.9pt bold] Detailed break-down
[10.5pt] The following provides a break-down of the components of the grade.
1. Project Proposal (10%)
These points will be based on the originality, quality and feasibility of
the proposed work, the analysis of alternative solutions, the
consideration of societal/economic/ethical aspects, and the project
management approach, as reflected on your written proposal (75%)
and oral presentation (25%). Submission of the written document will
be due 11:59 P.M.
2. Critical Design Review (10%)
The CDR is a mid-semester evaluation of your project. The grade will be
based on your progress to date, and the quality of your oral
presentation and accompanying report.  Submission of the written
document will be due 11:59 P.M.
3. Final Communication (10% )
[10.5pt] This grade will be based on the quality of the final presentation (25%), as
[10.5pt] well as the contents and professional finish of the documentation (75%).
[10.5pt] Final reports should have a discussion of constraints that the team had to
[10.5pt] satisfy (e.g., cost, time, technology limitations) and of relevant industry
[10.5pt] standards used (e.g., coding, interfaces, safety). This includes a video
[10.5pt] describing the project. Submission of the written document will be due
[10.5pt] 11:59 P.M.
4. Project Grade: Final completion, Weekly Progress, and Team Effectiveness
(25% )
[10.5pt] A final grade will be assigned to your project based on the completion of all
[10.5pt] the objectives stated in the proposal, as well as on a live demonstration.
[10.5pt] The complexity of your project and the size of your team will be factored in.
[10.5pt] Due date: Project demonstrations will take place the last day of class of the
[10.5pt] week prior to final presentations. This earlier deadline ensures that teams
[10.5pt] have time to (i) thoroughly test and validate their systems after the demo,
[10.5pt] and (ii) prepare the final presentation.
[10.5pt] The weekly progress part of this grade will be based on your team’s ability
[10.5pt] to keep the project on schedule. The weekly report should be incremental,
[10.5pt] and should specifically address the following:
[10.5pt bold] a. An  agenda for the meeting  with the instructor/TA.
[10.5pt bold] b. Any  major accomplishments  during this time period, including
[10.5pt] figures and results.
[10.5pt bold] c. The  team’s goals  for the following week.
[10.5pt] d. An update on project management, including teamwork, purchases,
[10.5pt] schedule and milestone status.
[10.5pt bold] e.  Minutes  of the previous meeting.
[10.5pt] Weekly progress reports are due 1:30 P.M. the day of the weekly meeting.
[10.5pt] This is due only for those weeks in which a meeting is held. The
[10.5pt] responsibility of preparing these reports will be rotated among team
[10.5pt] members. The team member preparing the report will also be in charge of
[10.5pt] facilitating the discussions during that weekly meeting, and preparing an
[10.5pt] action list for the following week.
[10.5pt] It is very important to understand that accomplishing the technical
[10.5pt] objectives of the project is not sufficient. These accomplishments should not
[10.5pt] come at the expense of destroying relationships among team members.
[10.5pt] Thus, a grade will be assigned based on the ability of the group to function
[10.5pt] as a team. Is there evidence that the group engaged in team building
[10.5pt] activities? Were contributions to the project evenly distributed? Were
[10.5pt] members equally engaged in discussions during meetings? Was there an
[10.5pt] effective division of responsibilities?
5.  Individual Performance (45%)
[10.5pt] Points in this category are based on assessment of your personal
[10.5pt] contribution to the project and team-effort:
[10.5pt] a. Personal Design and Implementation Contributions (35%)
[10.5pt] You are required record what YOU do as a member of the
[10.5pt] project. This can be done in virtual form, via software version
[10.5pt] control comments and notes/commentary on the log. An
[10.5pt] example of a commentary of a git log will be provided; this
[10.5pt] may need to be supplemented with extra documentation (e.g.,
[10.5pt] showing sketches and design alternatives explored which did
[10.5pt] not make it into the final project).
[10.5pt] A grade will be assigned to your personal contribution and logs
[10.5pt] of your design and implementation effort based on:
[10.5pt] 1. The regularity of your entries throughout the semester.
[10.5pt] 2. The evidence of an engineering design process,
[10.5pt] including but not limited to schematics, ER diagrams,
[10.5pt] flow-charts, pseudo-code, tables of experimental
[10.5pt] results, and mathematical derivations.
[10.5pt] 3. The clarity, legibility and organization of your
[10.5pt] annotations and commentary.
[10.5pt] b. Participation (5%) (and potentially Team Dysfunctions exercise)
[10.5pt] The instructor and TA will evaluate your attendance to
[10.5pt] meetings, participation in the discussions, and contributions to
[10.5pt] the team. Team leaders will be evaluated on their efforts to
[10.5pt] facilitate group operation as an effective team.
[10.5pt] Location: Unlike some other capstone offerings, we do not
[10.5pt] insist on work being done in the lab; what matters is that the
[10.5pt] team worked cohesively. Your group is expected to be present
[10.5pt] in the lab on the group’s respective meeting day (typically
[10.5pt] exclusively Tuesday or Thursday), as well as the presentation
[10.5pt] and CDR presentation days.
[10.5pt] c. Peer Review (4%)
[10.5pt] Your performance will be evaluated by each of your team
[10.5pt] members throughout the semester. (Dates appear in the table
[10.5pt] below.)
[10.5pt] d. Ethics Module (1%)
[10.5pt] This is a canvas model and is to be completed on your own
[10.5pt] some time before the final submission.
[10.5pt] Furthermore, the instructor reserves the right to impose a grade penalty if a member is
[10.5pt] seen to actively undermine their group.
Any academic misconduct in this course will result in a grade of F*.
Note: Grades will not be assigned until all project deliverables have been turned in
(see below), all borrowed items (e.g., keys, books, equipment) have been returned
to their proper location or their owner, and the the space in EABA 118 returned to
state resembling its initial condition. All team members are required to be present
at the time of the final delivery.
[12.9pt bold] Final Deliverables (i.e., a checklist)
1. The final report provided in hardcopy.
2. A shared drive that includes the following (please organize into folders, e.g.,
Docs, Source, Hardware (if applicable), Media, References, Freeware)
a. Designs: the final version of the code, documentation (APIs, internal
support document, user-guide, help files), data, freeware software
tools, etc.
b. Reports: proposal, CDR, weekly reports, final report, and  all
presentations.
c. Audiovisual media: a ±40 second project overview video as well as a
high-quality video demonstration of the system working.
3. Final hardware prototype, if appropriate, as well as any spare parts and
supplies.
4. Software install, if appropriate, to be demonstrated on multiple machines.
5. The final peer review.
6. Evidence of individual design contributions.
[12.9pt] Document Preparation
All major documents (technical survey, proposal, CDR, and final documentation)
should be submitted in a professional form. This includes containing a title page, an
outline, as well as clear section and subsection headings, etc. The final report
should be bound. Students are strongly encouraged to submit documents typeset
in LaTeX. Proofread and run a spell check before submission! (Note the
opportunities for extra-credit through use of the UWC, mentioned below.)
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Work is expected to be completed by the due date. Occasionally the instructor may
permit an extension to the deadlines, but those extensions will apply to every
student equally. Standard university reasons for lateness shall be respected so long
as the student communicates with the instructor as soon as possible—this means,
specifically, it has been communicated before the deadline has passed and not  ex
post facto .
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Break-down of deliverables and meetings per week.
Date
Topic
Material Due
8/26
Course Overview and Introductions
Résumés
8/28
Kick-off Lectures
Questionnaires
9/2
Kick-off Lectures (cont.) [Teams formed]
Date
Topic
Material Due
9/4
All teams meetings
9/11
All teams meetings
[Project topic
determined]
9/16
Tues Teams
9/18
Thurs Teams
9/23
Proposal Presentations (Tues)
9/25
Proposal Presentations (Thurs)
9/30
[10.5pt] Tues Teams
Proposal documents
10/2
Thurs Teams
Peer review I
10/14   [Fall break (Tues)]
10/16
Peer review II
10/23   CDR Presentations (Thurs)
10/28   CDR Presentations (Tues)
11/4
CDRs
11/6
Peer review III
11/25   Final demonstrations
11/27   [Thanksgiving break (Thurs)]
12/9 *   Industry Panel Evaluation (Reading day:
Tuesday)
Final Presentations
12/15   Check out: 5pm
Final Report, Final
Deliverables.
The entry marked with the  *  is only tentative, depending on the CSCE Department's
recruitment of Industry Affiliates.
[16.0pt] Learning Resources
The University Writing Center (UWC) has trained peer consultants available to work
with you on any kind of writing or speaking project, including research papers, lab
reports, application essays, or creative writing, and at any stage of your process,
whether you're deciding on a topic or reviewing your final draft. You can also get
help with public speaking, presentations, and group projects. We can work with you
in person at our Evans location or via Zoom or email. To schedule an appointment
or to view our handouts or videos visit writingcenter.tamu.edu. If you have
questions, need help making an appointment, or encounter difficulty accessing our
services, call 979-458-1455 or email  uwc@tamu.edu .
For presentations and submitted reports (the proposal, CDR, and final report) your
team can obtain 10% extra-credit on each of these elements by providing evidence
of having used the UWC to improve your draft. In the past, it has been found that
the online meeting are most productive, especially if a small subset (one or two)
members of the team participate in these meetings.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Senate established the wording of these policies.
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
Not attending weekly meetings harms the other members of your group and makes
it much more difficult for the instructor and TA to assess your contributions to the
group effort. Therefore, attendance, punctuality and active participation in the
weekly meetings are strict requirements. Failure to attend a meeting or late arrivals
(more than 5 minutes late) will be reflected in the participation portion of your
individual grade. Emergencies, however, do happen. Lateness or absence can be
excused if there is a valid reason. Illness, job interviews out of town, death in the
family, inclement weather or accidents for commuters, etc., are valid reasons.
Oversleeping, a term paper due, an exam to cram for, etc., are not valid reasons.
Ultimately, the instructor reserves the right to determine what constitutes a “valid
reason” on a case by case basis. If you know you’re going to be late or miss a class,
please let the instructor and your teammates know, so that they may plan for your
absence and make the best use of their time. Attending the career fair is not a basis
for missing class.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information Witholding
Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records policy is
available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the  First Amendment.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Use of AI tools, including ChatGPT, is permitted for students wishing to use them.
To be consistent with TAMU’s scholarly values, students must cite any AI-generated
material that informed their work and use quotation marks or other appropriate
indicators of quoted material when appropriate. Here is an example of attribution
language: “The author generated this text in part with GPT-4, OpenAI’s large-scale
language-generation model. Upon generating draft language, the author reviewed,
edited, and revised the language to their own liking and takes ultimate responsibility
for the content of this publication.” When substantial parts of the reports were
generated, the relationship between those sections and student contributions
should be discussed by providing additional documentation to accompany the
report submission. For purposes of grading, students may need to defend the
against criticism that your human-authored contributions are limited; this may
require, for instance, providing details of the prompts provided, and/or video
recordings showing your interactions with the AI tools. Students may be asked to
indicate how AI tools informed their process and the influenced final product,
including how you validated any AI-generated citations, which may be invented by
the AI. Claims that have a factual basis and which AI tools have extracted from other
sources, should not be cited merely as attributed to the tool, but require the follow-
up work to (1) verify they were not hallucinated, and (2) to make a proper
attribution. Specifically , “With a current US population of 330 million (ChatGPT-4.0),
the need for X, Y, Z…” is not adequate.