<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Industrial and Systems Engineering
[16.0pt] ISEN 302 Syllabus
Section 500 (53801)
Economic Analysis of Engineering Projects
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 09:10AM
End Time: 10:00AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 344
Credit Hours:  2
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Ashwini Ravindran
Email:  ashwinir@tamu.edu
Office Location:  ETB 4010 (shared office)
Phone:  979 845 5531
Office Hours
By appointment
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Economic Analysis of Engineering Projects. (2-0). Credit 2. Principles of economic
equivalence; time value of money; analysis of single and multiple investments;
comparison of alternatives; capital recovery and after-tax analysis of economic
projects. Prerequisites: Grade of C or better in MATH 152 or MATH 172; also taught
at Qatar campus.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in MATH 152 or MATH 172; also
taught at Qatar campus.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Make engineering decisions based on an economic analysis of alternatives;
Explain and demonstrate the principles of economic equivalence and time
value of money;
Formulate and solve equations using interest factors and formulas;
Distinguish between nominal and effective interest rates and convert
between them;
Identify and determine constituent cash flows of single and/or multiple
investments;
Examine, diagram, and compare investment alternatives on an economic
basis using appropriate terminology;
Conclude and justify the best investment alternative(s) based on appropriate
analysis;
Develop and construct spreadsheet models to investigate alternatives;
Determine and utilize appropriate capital recovery methods for alternatives;
Compute and summarize after-tax analysis of projects.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Fundamentals of Engineering Economic Analysis
ISBN:  9781118881156
Authors:  John A. White, Kellie S. Grasman, Kenneth E.
Case, Kim LaScola Needy, David B. Pratt
Publisher:  Wiley Global Education
Publication Date:  2020-06-11
Edition:  2nd
Notes:
First edition would also suffice for the major part of the
course but some chapters have certain updates in the
second edition.
For school bookstore:
[12.0pt bold] Physical Access Code  ISBN 9781119504399
[12.0pt bold] Instant Access Code  ISBN 8220124000720
[16.0pt] Additional Instructional Materials
This Material is: Required
Lecture Slides
Notes:
Lecture slides shall be made available prior to every lecture.
This Material is: Required
Note Regarding Course Materials
Notes:
Materials such as but not limited to lecture notes, quizzes, homework, practice
exams, exams, etc. that are provided as part of this course are intended solely for
your personal academic use and it is not allowed to distribute these materials by
any means or upload them to any other website unless you have been granted
written permission to do so.
This Material is: Optional
WileyPlus
Notes:
WileyPlus has been enabled for the course and can be accessed from the menu in
the left side bar by clicking on "Wiley Course Resources".
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
There would be 3 exams and an optional final exam. Exam 4 (which is the optional
final exam) is provided as an opportunity for improving your grades.
Exam 1  – 25%
Exam 2  – 25%
Exam 3  – 25%
In-Class Quizzes  – 5%
Homework  - 20%
Exam 4 (Optional Final Exam)  - replaces the lowest grade among the 3
exams.
It is important that all the graded tests / assignments are completed on your own, in
accordance with the Aggie Honor Code and the rules specified for each assignment.
You may not discuss the problems with anyone else until after everyone has
finished taking the test/assignment.
Exam Policy:
All exams and in-class quizzes must be taken in-person in class.
In-class exams would be closed book and closed notes. You are allowed a
one-page single-side handwritten cheatsheet (paper size limited to
Letter)  for exams.
In-class quizzes would be closed book and closed notes unless otherwise
specified. Cheatsheets are  NOT allowed  for in-class quizzes.
Cash-flow tables needed for the exam would be provided along with the test
paper and must be returned along with the test paper at the end of the test.
Hand-held calculators are allowed  to be used during exams/quizzes.  No
other electronic devices  can be used during exams/quizzes.
Mobile phones, tablets, laptops and other interactive electronic devices
may NOT be used to serve as a calculator  unless an exception has been
granted by the instructor for certain quizzes.
If you do not have a calculator or run into an issue, you may be able to
borrow it from Evans Library prior to the test. Plan in advance since
availability may fluctuate based on demand. It might also be easier to borrow
one from a friend.
Regarding Optional Final Exam:
There is no penalty for taking the optional final exam.
The grade for the optional final exam would be used to replace the lowest
grade among the first 3 exams only if it would improve your existing grade. If
you do not do well on the optional exam, the original grades for the first 3
exams would be retained.
You are allowed to take the optional final  ONLY if you have taken all 3
exams . i.e. Exam 1, Exam 2 and Exam 3.
If you have missed either Exam 1, Exam 2 or Exam 3 due to a valid university-
excused absence (must provide verifiable documentation), then the optional
final exam grade would be used to replace the grade for the missing exam. In
this case, the optional final exam grade would not be used to replace any
other test grade.
[11.0pt bold] Grading Policy for Homework, Quizzes and Exams:
You must explain the logic and show the steps involved in calculation to
demonstrate how you arrived at the answer for every numerical problem on
any given assignment. i.e. the steps (including the formula used) must be
written in the test paper that you submit for in-class exams/quizzes and in
attachment you upload for homework. This also applies to multiple choice
questions that have a numerical answer.
If the work submitted does not clearly indicate your reasoning or outline
steps as to how you arrived at the solution, the points for that question would
be reduced to zero. This is done in order to discourage guess work and can
also help with partial credit.
For each assignment problem, you need to indicate the corresponding
question number for each answer on your written submission.
Homework assignments are to be submitted electronically through Canvas. In
case you face an issue accessing Canvas while within the submission
deadline, you can e-mail your homework to the instructor/TA within the
deadline.
Policy regarding late submissions have been outlined below.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
If you miss any graded quiz/test/assignment, you must contact the instructor
as soon as possible with a written authorized excuse. These have to be
discussed with me via e-mail and the student must be able to provide all
supporting documentation that can be verified. Make up assignments will be
given in accordance with University Rules (see Student Rule 7 at
http://student-rules.tamu.edu ).
If you have missed either Exam 1, Exam 2 or Exam 3 due to an university-
excused absence (must provide verifiable documentation), then the optional
final exam grade would be used to replace the grade for the missing exam. In
this case, the optional final exam grade would not be used to replace any
other test grade.
[11.0pt bold] The following instructions apply  ONLY  to Homework Assignments (take-home
submissions which constitute 20% of the final grade):
[11.0pt bold] You can use up to  1 late day per homework  with no penalty , limited to
[11.0pt bold] a maximum of 3 late days during the entire semester . Using 1 late
[11.0pt bold] day would allow you to submit your homework  within 24 hours  of the
[11.0pt bold] original deadline. You  cannot  use more than 1 late day on any
individual homework assignment. You won’t get more than 3 late days in
any given semester, so use them wisely.
Assignment submissions beyond the given deadline are not accepted
unless you are within your limit for late days as outlined below. Hence,
plan on submitting all assignments early in case you happen to
encounter some kind of technical difficulties later on. Remember that it
is your responsibility to ensure that your work has been submitted
properly.
If you use more than 3 late days during the semester, then that
particular homework assignment and any subsequent late homework
submissions would not be given any points.
Late days DO NOT APPLY to quizzes or exams.
In some cases, certain late assignment submissions may be accepted
at the discretion of the instructor. Any intention of using more than 3 late
days for homework in a given semester would require you to produce
verifiable valid documentation for university allowed excuses, including
documentation for the prior 3 days as well – with penalty adjudged on a
case-by-case basis.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Course Schedule for Spring 2026
[10.0pt bold] Week Date
[10.0pt bold] Topic
1
[10.0pt] 1/12
[10.0pt] 1/14
[10.0pt] An Overview (Chap. 1)
[10.0pt] 2
[10.0pt bold] 1/19 (no class)
[10.0pt] 1/21
[10.0pt bold] Martin Luther King, Jr. Day
[10.0pt] Time Value of Money (Chap. 2)
[10.0pt] 3
[10.0pt] 1/26
[10.0pt] 1/28
[10.0pt] Time Value of Money (Chap. 2)
[10.0pt] 4
[10.0pt] 2/2
[10.0pt] 2/4
[10.0pt] Time Value of Money (Chap. 2)
[10.0pt] 5
[10.0pt] 2/9
[10.0pt] 2/11
[10.0pt] Equivalence, Loans, and Bonds (Chap. 3)
[10.0pt] 6
[10.0pt] 2/16
[10.0pt] 2/18
[10.0pt] Equivalence, Loans, and Bonds (Chap. 3)
[10.0pt] Present Worth (Chap. 4)
[10.0pt] 7
[10.0pt] 2/23
[10.0pt] Present Worth (Chap. 4)
[10.0pt] 7
[10.0pt bold] 2/25
[10.0pt bold] Exam 1  (Chap. 1, 2, 3)
[10.0pt] 8
[10.0pt] 3/2
[10.0pt] 3/4
[10.0pt] Present Worth (Chap. 4)
[10.0pt] Annual and Future Worth (Chap. 5)
[10.0pt bold] Week Date
[10.0pt bold] Topic
[10.0pt] 9
[10.0pt bold] 3/9 (no class)
[10.0pt bold] 3/11 (no class)
[10.0pt bold] Spring Break
[10.0pt] 10
[10.0pt] 3/16
[10.0pt] 3/18
[10.0pt] Annual and Future Worth (Chap. 5)
[10.0pt] Rate of Return (Chap. 6)
[10.0pt] 11
[10.0pt] 3/23
[10.0pt] 3/25
[10.0pt] Rate of Return (Chap. 6)
[10.0pt] Replacement Analysis (Chap. 7)
[10.0pt] 12
[10.0pt] 3/30
[10.0pt] Depreciation (Chap. 8)
[10.0pt] 12
[10.0pt bold] 4/1
[10.0pt bold] Exam 2 (Chap. 4, 5, 6)
[10.0pt] 13
[10.0pt] 4/6
[10.0pt] 4/8
[10.0pt] Income Taxes (Chap. 9)
[10.0pt] 14
[10.0pt] 4/13
[10.0pt] 4/15
[10.0pt] Income Taxes (Chap. 9)
[10.0pt] Break-Even, Sensitivity, and Risk Analysis (Chap. 11)
[10.0pt] 15
[10.0pt] 4/20
[10.0pt] Break-Even, Sensitivity, and Risk Analysis (Chap. 11)
[10.0pt] 15
[10.0pt bold] 4/22
[10.0pt bold] Exam 3 (Chap. 7, 8, 9, 11)
[10.0pt] 4/27
[10.0pt] Exam Review (tentative)
[10.0pt bold] 5/1
[10.0pt bold] Exam 4 (Optional Final Exam)  8.00 am -10.00 am
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[13.0pt] Regarding Course Materials
Materials such as but not limited to lecture notes, quizzes, homework, practice
exams, exams, etc. that are provided as part of this course are intended solely for
[11.0pt bold] your personal academic use and it is  not allowed  to distribute these materials by
any means or upload them to any other website unless you have been granted
written permission to do so.
[13.0pt] Other Information
The grading scheme may be modified at the discretion of the instructor if a situation
arises where it may be necessary and any such changes would be announced at
least a week in advance.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Any form of AI assistance cannot be used for exams, quizzes or other assignments.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.