<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 120 Syllabus
Section 510 (50474)
Program Design and Concepts
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MWF
Start Time: 1:50PM
End Time: 2:40PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 350
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: W
Start Time: 11:30AM
End Time: 12:20PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 584
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Calvin Beideman (Sections 500, 501, 502, 503, 504, 505)
Email:  beideman@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 113
Phone:  979-845-2479
Office Hours
Follow link to “Office Hours” under “Student Resources” on the course Canvas
homepage.
Zbigniew Leyk (Sections 517, 518, 519, 520, 521, 522)
Email:  zleyk@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 117
Phone:  979-845-4908
Office Hours
[13.0pt] Follow   link   to  “ Office   Hours ”  under  “ Student   Resources ”  on   the
[13.0pt] course   Canvas   homepage .
Amit Merchant (Sections 506, 507, 508)
Email:  amit.merchant@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 112
Phone:  979-458-6817
Office Hours
[13.0pt] Follow   link   to  “ Office   Hours ”  under  “ Student   Resources ”  on   the
[13.0pt] course   Canvas   homepage .
Philip Ritchey (Sections 511, 512, 513, 514, 515, 516)
Email:  pcr@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 423
Phone:  979-845-3510
Office Hours
[13.0pt] Follow   link   to  “ Office   Hours ”  under  “ Student   Resources ”  on   the
[13.0pt] course   Canvas   homepage .
Shawna Thomas (Sections 200, 509, 510)
Email:  sthomas@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 319
Phone:  979-862-8877
Office Hours
Follow link to “Office Hours” under “Student Resources” on the course Canvas
homepage.
Han Tran (Sections 250, 550)
Email:  hantran@tamu.edu
Office Location:  ECRB 309D
Phone:  409-740-5517
Office Hours
[13.0pt] Follow   link   to  “ Office   Hours ”  under  “ Student   Resources ”  on   the
[13.0pt] course   Canvas   homepage .
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Program Design and Concepts. (3-1). Credit 3. Extension of prior programming
knowledge and creation of computer programs that solve problems; use of the C++
language; application of computational thinking to enhance problem solving;
analysis of, design of and implementation of computer programs; use of basic and
aggregate data types to develop functional and object oriented solutions;
development of classes that use dynamic memory and avoid memory leaks; study
of error handling strategies to develop more secure and robust programs.
Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in ENGR 102, CSCE 110, CSCE 111, CSCE 206 or
PHYS 150.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in ENGR 102, CSCE 110,
CSCE 111, CSCE 206 or PHYS 150.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, you will be able to:
Develop  and apply algorithmic reasoning to solve complex problems.
Explain
common programming concepts including abstraction, information
hiding, object-oriented decomposition, and recursion,
control structures including sequence, selection, iteration, and function
invocation, and
data types including arrays, vectors, linked lists, structs, and classes.
Analyze  a computing problem,  evaluate  different programming design
choices, and  develop  a program to solve the problem.
Write  documented code that follows common code readability practices and
uses strategies to reduce and address errors.
Analyze  code with debugging tools to find and fix errors.
Contrast  different approaches to handling memory and  write  programs that
avoid memory leaks and unintended memory side effects.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Learn C++ (Online Textbook)
URL for Resource:  https://www.learncpp.com/
This material Is: Recommended
Programming Principles and Practice Using C++
Authors:  Bjarne Stroustrup
Publisher:  Pearson
Publication Date:  2024
Edition:  Third Edition
URL for Resource:  https://www.stroustrup.com/programming.html
This material Is: Required
Computer (Preferably with Camera)
Notes:
You must have your own computer for consuming online content that fulfills
the  Texas A&M Computer Requirements .
You will have to install software on it. We will provide links to software you can
install for the course and procedures for setting things up.
Many office hours are provided online so having a camera helps you utilize
those resources.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Grades will be assigned according to the following scale:
Grading Scale
Rounded % total
Letter Grade
100 - 90
A
<90 and  ≥  80
B
<80 and  ≥  70
C
<70 and  ≥  60
D
<60
F
These grades represent varying degrees of achievement (see the  university's
grading system ): A = excellent, B = good, C = satisfactory, D = passing, F = failing.
If you want to challenge any grading, you must do so within one week of when the
grade is published.
We reserve the right to audit the grades for any assignments submitted to this
course. During the audit process, we can decrease or increase your score. This
could result in lowering the score of already released grades.
[12.9pt] Homework (20%)
Homework assignments are completed individually outside of class and submitted
weekly.
You may discuss with other students in the course.
You may not discuss with students not taking the course.
If you discuss, you must clearly identify who you discussed with in your
code submission.
You should not copy code from another student and you should not
provide your code to another student; each of you must write your own
code independently.
All detected plagiarism, cheating, complicity, and AI use will be reported to the
Aggie Honor System Office . Examples include, but are not limited to:
Writing code with AI tools such as ChatGPT or Copilot.
This includes not just copy-pasting code from an AI, but also
asking AI to explain the prompt or for help debugging.
You should not use AI in any capacity for the homework
assignments in this course.
Previously used code from Chegg or similar tutoring websites; using
such resources is not allowed.
Submitting code based on a solution or on starting code from such a
resource is considered plagiarism.
For resources that have not been explicitly allowed by the course,
check with your instructor or TA first before using them.
Some homework assignments will include extra credit. However, your
homework average will be capped at a maximum of 100%.
Your course homework score is the average of your homework scores.
You may resubmit redemption versions of the homework through the last
day of classes.
Homework scores will be the maximum between the original homework
score OR the average of the original homework score and the redemption
homework score.
[12.9pt] Labwork (10%)
Labwork activities are designed to help you better understand concepts that
students traditionally struggle with or are integral to know before doing homework.
You must work collaboratively in person with other students during your lab
session.
Even though you will work collaboratively, you will submit individually.
To get completion credit you must:
Fulfill what is required in the lab prompt for completion of that
particular labwork.
Attend the lab session in person, submit documentation for an
excused absence, or be one of two free absences that do not require
documentation.
Your course labwork score is the average of lab completion credits.
[12.9pt] Midterm Exams (36%)
The average of your midterm exam grades with the lowest midterm exam grade
dropped. Midterm exams are paper-only (no computers allowed) and taken during
your lab session.
[12.9pt] Final Exam (24%)
Cumulative, paper-only (no computers allowed) and taken in your lecture room
during your lecture exam time set by the registrar.
[12.9pt] Readings (5%)
Your course reading score is the average of your weekly Perusall reading
assignment scores plus 15 percentage points to a maximum of 100 percent. This
allows you to miss some reading assignments without negatively impacting your
score. For example, a friend has a personal crisis, and you choose to console them
instead of doing some Perusall reading assignments. You do not have to ask the
instructor for special consideration since it is built into the course.
[12.9pt] Class Engagement (5%)
Your instructor will give you activities that can include quizzes and “check-ins” to
assess your participation with class materials.
Your class engagement score is the score determined by your instructor plus 15
percentage points to a maximum of 100 percent. This allows you to miss some
class engagement without negatively impacting your score. For example, you had a
flat tire on the way to campus that caused you to miss an engagement activity in
class. You do not have to ask the instructor for special consideration since it is built
into the course.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
It is  your  responsibility to keep up with the class, even when unexpected events
interfere.
See the Course Specific Makeup Work Policy for details on excused absence
documentation and exam make ups.
[12.9pt] Homework Late Work
You have up to 10 late days you can distribute among all homework assignments
with a maximum of 4 days on a single homework.
To get credit for late submissions, you must submit your late homework
assignments to the redemption version of the homework.
You must submit the "Late Homework Days Request ” form under
“Student Resources” in Canvas  to have a redemption score used in
place of your original submission.
You should complete any homework before submitting late day
requests.
For late homework due to an excused absence, see the Course Specific Make
Up Work Policy section of the syllabus for submitting excused absence
documentation.
You still must submit to the redemption version of the assignment.
When the excused absence documentation is processed, the highest
score submitted to the redemption by the extended due date will be
used as your homework score.
You may request additional days beyond an excused absence by
submitting the form for “Late Homework Days Request” under “Student
Resources” in Canvas.
Note:  The autograding system will give you the maximum score you earn. This
allows you to keep credit for a passing version even if you “break” your code while
trying to pass more test cases which commonly happens when trying to improve
your score. We want you to improve your score and not be scared about lowering
your score.
Note:  Network congestion frequently increases close to deadlines. So, waiting to
submit until the last minute can easily lead to it becoming a late submission.  We
suggest finishing an assignment several hours in advance to ensure it is on
time.  You should also submit periodically as you develop your solution to get
feedback from the autograding system. However, you should focus on debugging
locally rather than submitting to the autograder and using it as a debugging tool.
[12.9pt] Labwork Late Work
Labwork will be accepted through the end of the day following your lab session. For
labs missed due to excused absences, see the Course Specific Makeup Work Policy.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[12.9pt] Topics and Midterm Exam Schedule
The course schedule is tentative and subject to change.
Topic and Midterm Exam Schedule
Week   Topics
Exams
1
What you (should) already know, but in C++
2
Vectors and Strings
3
Vectors and Strings; Errors and Debugging;  Object-Oriented
[10.5pt] Concepts
4
Object-Oriented Concepts; Design and Testing
5
Exceptions; Input/Output Streams
Exam 1
6
Input/Output Streams
7
Functions – Pass by Reference; Implementing Classes
8
Operator Overloading
9
Dynamic Memory; C-style Arrays
10
Dynamic Arrays
Exam 2
11
Classes with Dynamic Memory
12
Classes with Dynamic Memory
13
Linked Lists
Exam 3
14
Inheritance and Polymorphism
15
Recursion
[12.9pt] Final Exam Schedule
The final exam schedule is  set by the university .
Final Exam Times and Locations
Sections   Instructor
Exam Date / Time
Location
200
Thomas
May 4 (M) 3:30 PM - 5:30 PM
ZACH 350
250
Tran
May 1 (F) 8:00 AM - 10:00 AM
MAIN 212
500-502
Beideman
May 4 (M) 10:30 AM - 12:30 PM
ZACH 310
503-505
Beideman
May 1 (F) 3:30 PM - 5:30 PM
ZACH 310
506-508
Merchant
May 1 (F) 3:30 PM - 5:30 PM
ZACH 350
509-510
Thomas
May 4 (M) 3:30 PM - 5:30 PM
ZACH 350
511-513
Ritchey
May 4 (M) 10:30 AM - 12:30 PM
ZACH 244
514-516
Ritchey
May 1 (F) 3:30 PM - 5:30 PM
ZACH 244
517-519
Leyk
May 1 (F) 10:30 AM - 12:30 PM
ZACH 244
520-522
Leyk
May 4 (M) 3:30 PM - 5:30 PM
ZACH 244
550
Tran
May 1 (F) 8:00 AM - 10:00 AM
MAIN 212
[12.9pt] Labwork Due Dates
Labs are done during your lab session. While it is preferred that you submit during
your lab session, you can submit them through the end of the following day.
[12.9pt] Homework Due Dates
The normal pattern is every Friday:
1. Friday, January 23
2. Friday, January 30
3. Friday, February 6
4. Friday, February 20
5. Friday, February 27
6. Friday, March 6
7. Friday, March 20
8. Friday, April 3
9. Friday, April 10
10. Friday, April 24
Any extensions will be posted under Announcements on the course Canvas
homepage.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[12.9pt] Course Copyright
The materials used within this course are copyrighted. These materials include, but
are not limited to, syllabi, quizzes, exams, homework and labwork problems, online
handouts, course videos, audio and visual recordings of classes, etc. Because these
materials are copyrighted, you do not have the right to copy or distribute these
materials unless permission is expressly granted.
[12.9pt] Respect for All
Accessibility Statement
Howdy! Your CSCE 120 instructors want you to do well in this challenging course.
While the  Disability Accommodation Portal (AIM Portal)  eases sharing
accommodation information, you should still  make an appointment with your
section’s instructor  to discuss your accommodations. In addition to
accommodations, we would be happy to discuss strategies for succeeding in this
course.
We encourage you to get your accommodations, even if you don’t feel you will
need them.  When Dr. Moore started teaching at Texas A&M, he noticed a
disturbing pattern. Students would take their first exam without using their
accommodations. Frequently, students said they just wanted to try it without the
accommodation. After the first exam, there would be a rush of students requesting
accommodations. These instances have greatly decreased since we’ve been explicit.
While Dr. Moore suspected students did not disclose due to negative experiences
with prior instructors, we want students to know the culture in our department is to
happily provide needed accommodations approved by Disability Resources.
“We prefer that you get your accommodations and not need them, rather
than trying without your accommodations and finding out that you
needed them.”
Everyone should be cognizant of creating artifacts and software that are accessible.
If you major in computer science or computer engineering, you can take a course
on Accessible Computing (CSCE 432) that Dr. Moore developed to train computer
scientists to consider accessibility as they create technology.
Professionalism and Respect
You are expected to treat your instructor and all other participants in the course
with courtesy and respect. Your comments to others should be factual,
constructive, and free from harassing statements. You are encouraged to disagree
with other students, but such  disagreements need to be based upon facts and
documentation  (rather than prejudices and personalities).
Unprofessional or disrespectful conduct will result in a lower grade on an
assignment. Warnings will not be given; part of the learning process in this course is
the respectful engagement of ideas with others.
Students will need to contribute in intelligent, positive, and constructive manners
within the course. Behaviors that are abusive, disruptive, or harassing may result in
disciplinary actions as specified within the Student Rules.
Sensitive or controversial topics might be discussed in this course. Comments
posted within this course are to remain confidential to the audience of this course;
do not copy or share messages or writings from this course with others, not in this
course section.
Students in this course are also responsible for being familiar with the  University’s
student rules and policies .
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Artificial Intelligence (AI) text generators and natural language processing tools
(colloquially, chatbots - such as ChatGPT), audio, computer code, video, and image
generators  must not be used in any way  for completing assignments or
assessments in this course. This includes not just copying code from AI tools but
also using AI tools to summarize the homework prompt, to get high level
algorithmic ideas or to debug your code. Students engaging in AI use to complete
course work will be reported and sanctioned.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Course Specific Makeup Work Policy
It is  your  responsibility to keep up with the class, even when unexpected events
interfere.
[12.9pt] Absence Documentation
Before you can do any make-up work, you must provide your instructor with any
documentation for your absence through the link provided in Canvas. Even if you
email your instructor, you must also submit that information in Canvas.
Submit any documentation for absences by following the link provided on the
course Canvas homepage under “Student Resources” for “Absence
Documentation Submission.” An email to your instructor is not sufficient.
Note that documentation can be a typed out reasoning that is exactly what
students email professors when they’re not sure if it is excused. Submit to the
link rather than sending the email.
[12.9pt] Exam Make Up
You may only make up exams missed due to an excused absence. Note that if
advanced notice is not feasible, you have two business days to provide notification.
A zero will be assigned for exams due to an unexcused absence. Documentation
must be submitted prior to making up for a missed exam.
If you miss an exam due to an excused absence, you must take the make up exam
on the designated date and time:
Exam 1 Make Up: Monday, Feb 16 at 7:30 PM in PETR 120
Exam 2 Make Up: Monday, Mar 30 at 7:30 PM in PETR 120
Exam 3 Make Up: Monday, Apr 20 at 7:30 PM in PETR 120
If you have problems with these times, discuss options with your instructor.
[12.9pt] Readings and Engagement
Readings and engagement are about what you are doing to keep up in the course,
so they cannot be made up long after the fact. However, excused absences will
extend due dates for readings and engagement according to the specific
instructor’s engagement activities.
[12.9pt] Homework
Late and make up homework is addressed in the Course Specific Late Work Policy
section.
[12.9pt] Labwork
You should always complete labwork, even if you will not receive credit since it will
help with upcoming homework assignments and exams.
Part of your labwork completion credit is attending the lab session.
If you have a valid reason to miss a lab session:
Complete the lab activity as soon as possible.
Submit the absence documentation form in Canvas to get an excused
absence for missing a lab session.
Each student will get attendance credit for  up to two absences not covered
by an excused absence documentation submission. As with excused
absences, you must still complete the lab activity.
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.