<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 430 Syllabus
Section 200 (51773)
Problem Solving Programming Strategies
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 3:00PM
End Time: 3:50PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 350
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: F
Start Time: 3:00PM
End Time: 5:30PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 350
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
John Keyser
Email:  keyser@tamu.edu
Office Location:  Peterson 408
Phone:  979-458-0167
Office Hours
Mondays, 4-5; Tuesdays 2:30-3:30; or by appointment
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Problem Solving Programming Strategies. (2-3). Credit 3. Methods for analyzing
fundamental programming problems from a variety of domains and implementing
solutions quickly and efficiently; problems based on competitive programming
contests to develop skills in problem analysis, coding and testing; solving problems
will involve identifying and applying a range of algorithmic solutions; includes
dealing with combinatorics, dynamic programming, graphs, numerical calculations,
string processing and geometry, along with other specialized algorithms.
Prerequisites: CSCE 411 or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  CSCE 411 or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Analyze a given programming problem to identify the algorithms needed to solve the
problem
Implement a program, including implementing the basic algorithms needed, to solve
specified problems
Develop test cases that will ensure that implemented programs are robust to a full
range of valid inputs
Create problems that can be used to evaluate or train others
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Competitive Programming
Authors:  Steven Halim, Felix Halim, and Suhendry Effendy
Edition:  4th
URL for Resource:  https://www.lulu.com/search?
sortBy=RELEVANCE&page=1&q=Competitive+Programming+4&pageSize=10&adult
_audience_rating=00
Notes:
The book can be bought via the website. The 4 th  edition is in two separate books, available
either in paperback or as a PDF. We will cover almost everything in book 1, and will cover
parts of book 2.
The textbook is considered required, in the sense that we will refer to it and you will be able
to make use of it through the course. However, students in the past have been able to go
through the course without buying it.
See the note below about the required online system that will require a fee.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[12.0pt] The course grades will consist of a large number of programming problems of varying
[12.0pt] difficulty and varying topics, given over the course of the semester. Problems will be
[12.0pt] assigned in 3 different ways:
[12.0pt] Problem Sets: Problems to be completed individually on the student’s
[12.0pt] own time. Generally, individual problems will be assigned each week
[12.0pt] and due on Saturdays, unless the class agrees on a different time. You
[12.0pt] should expect to spend several hours every week on your own,
[12.0pt] working on these problems.
[12.0pt] Labs (Individual): Problems to be completed individually during the
[12.0pt] timed lab period. In each lab period, students will be given a set of
[12.0pt] problems to be solved. These problems are meant to be challenging,
[12.0pt] with the time pressure being a significant factor.
[12.0pt] Labs (Team): Problems to be completed on a team (usually of 2 people)
[12.0pt] during the timed lab period. During some of the lab portions of the
[12.0pt] class, students may be teamed up with one or two other students, and
[12.0pt] together they may be asked to complete problems during the lab
[12.0pt] period, using only 1 computer at a time. In this case, all students on
[12.0pt] the team will receive credit for problems completed.
[12.0pt] For each set of problems, students will be given a “base” number of problems they
[12.0pt] are expected to solve; there may be more problems given than that number, and
[12.0pt] students may solve more than the base number, if they are able to do so.  Typically,
[12.0pt] each problem set will have one more problem (a "challenge" problem) than the base.
[12.0pt] The number of base problems per lab (individual or group) will be determined after
[12.0pt] the end of each lab.  The total number of base problems over the course of the
[12.0pt] semester should be in the range of 110-125.
[12.0pt] In all cases, completing a problem will mean that the code passes a series of validated
[12.0pt] test data that the students will not be shown. Each problem will be noted as either
[12.0pt] complete or incomplete by the given time (either the due date for the Problem Set or
[12.0pt] the end of the timed lab period).
[12.0pt] Problems completed after the deadline (i.e. after the submission time for weekly
[12.0pt] individual problems, or outside of lab time during the timed period) can receive half
[12.0pt] credit. This is referred to as “upsolving.” Students will have a limited period to upsolve
[12.0pt] these problems late for half credit; typically this will be the Saturday one week
[12.0pt] following the original deadline.
[12.0pt] The final grade in the course will be based on the percentage of problems solved by
[12.0pt] each student (i.e. the number completed divided by the base number). That is, the
[12.0pt] number completed will be the number of problems completed individually on their
[12.0pt] own time in problem sets, plus the number completed individually or on a team
[12.0pt] within a timed lab period, plus half the number individually upsolved (from problem
[12.0pt] sets or labs). The number possible will be the number of problems assigned as a base
[12.0pt] for problem sets plus the number assigned as a base during the labs. All problems will
[12.0pt] be weighted equally.
[12.0pt bold] To earn an A grade, a student must  also  get at least 50% of the base points for the
[12.0pt] problems to be completed individually on their own time (in problem sets), in every
[12.0pt] week of the class. This can include points for solving during the week, or later
[12.0pt] upsolving of the problems.
[12.0pt] The grading scale will be:
[11.0pt bold] A = 90 % or greater,  and  at least 50% of problems set points in every week
B = 80-89 %
C = 70-79 %
D = 60-69 %
F = <60 %
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late work is not accepted (see excused absence information below). The deadlines for
submission will be set automatically and are strict. Note, however, that the upsolve period
allows for solving problems (for half credit) following the due date.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Schedule of topics and book chapters by week.
[11.0pt bold] Schedule
The following is the expected schedule, including some of the types of algorithms
that are expected to be covered each week, and the relevant chapters in the
textbook. However, as the semester goes on, this will likely be adjusted (in particular,
week 13 could be moved earlier in the semester).
Schedule of topics and book chapters by weeks.
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Topic
[11.0pt bold] Chapters
1
Introduction; Problem formats; Online judging
systems; Parsing Input; Formatting Output
1
2-4
Fundamental Data Structures and their
implementation on your own or in libraries (various
trees, sets, graphs, search structures)
2
5-7
Applying Divide and Conquer, Greedy, and Dynamic
Programming Approaches
3
8-11
Applying Graph Algorithms (search, shortest path,
minimum spanning tree, network flow, bipartite
graph matching)
HONORS PROBLEM 1 Due 3/15
4, 8.4-8.5
12
String Processing (editing, tries, subsequences,
suffixes)
6
13
Applying Numerical algorithms and Combinatorics
(GCD, LCM, modular math, Large number
computations, generating and counting
permutations and combinations)
5
14
Applications of Geometric Algorithms (2D line
segment and polygon queries – intersection, area;
convex hull)
7
15
Selected additional algorithms and their application
(if time allows)
HONORS PROBLEM 2 Due 4/28
Deadline for all upsolving at final exam time
8-9
Lab will  not  be held on Friday, March 6 (immediately before Spring Break).  There is a
chance that we might not hold lab on Friday, March 20, due to travel by the
instructor and more than one TA.
Note that we  will  hold lab on the redefined Friday (i.e. Tuesday, April 28).
We will not have a final exam nor have any lab during final exam time. The time
slated for the final exam (10:30 5/4/26) will be the final deadline for turning in any
upsolved problems or other work in the course.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[12.0pt bold] Fee for online system
[12.0pt] We will be using the Kattis system (see Online Judging below) for problem judging.
[12.0pt] This system has a $35 or less fee associated with it that you will be required to pay,
[12.0pt] and may not be refundable.
[12.0pt bold] Online judging
[12.0pt] Online judging systems will be used to perform the testing and acceptance of
[12.0pt] solutions to problems. This will require students to obtain a user account on these
[12.0pt] external systems. The Kattis system (tamu.kattis.com) will be the main system used,
[12.0pt] but others might be used on occasion. Students are expected to keep their login
[12.0pt] information private, as they would for a department computer system. The online
[12.0pt] system’s judgment will be the sole factor determining whether problems are accepted
[12.0pt] or not, and this will generally mean passing all test cases (not just some) for the
[12.0pt] problem.
[12.0pt bold] Communication
[12.0pt] We will use Canvas for the course materials. Canvas will be used to post and answer
[12.0pt] critical questions, to make course announcements, etc. Grades will be posted on
[12.0pt] Canvas, though the actual submission and grading will be through the Kattis system.
[12.0pt] Students are responsible for checking Canvas regularly for communications and
[12.0pt] occasionally verifying that grading matches their Kattis judgments. We may also use a
[12.0pt] Discord-based system to allow for getting help and contacting TAs and the instructor
[12.0pt] more easily; using this is optional, but would provide an easier route for getting
[12.0pt] assistance.
[12.0pt bold] Limitations on Anonymity
[12.0pt] The course will use a competitive programming framework for judging and posting
[12.0pt] results of all problem sets. This means that students will be able to see an indication
[12.0pt] of which problems other students have attempted, and their success or lack of
[12.0pt] success in having these accepted. While there is the option of hiding the specific user
[12.0pt] name, students cannot expect their performance to be kept completely anonymous
[12.0pt] from others, and it may be that other individuals can determine their performance on
[12.0pt] problem sets either by process of elimination, or from other information they
[12.0pt] determine from the competitive system.
[12.0pt bold] Source Code Presentations
[12.0pt] Some problems worked on may have multiple solutions, and throughout the course,
[12.0pt] individuals’ work might be used as examples for illustrating approaches to solving a
[12.0pt] problem, writing code, etc. Students may be called on to describe their own solution
[12.0pt] to a problem or the approach they tried; advance warning will be given in such cases
[12.0pt] with students given the opportunity to opt-out of presenting. Alternately, students’
[12.0pt] code may be used as an example shown to other students for how a given solution
[12.0pt] might be coded; code presented this way will be kept anonymous unless the student
[12.0pt] has first agreed to let it be presented.
[12.0pt] Also, see the discussion below regarding individual discussion of code with the
[12.0pt] instructor in order to verify that an academic honesty violation did not occur.
[12.0pt bold] Computers
[12.0pt] You will need to use your own computer for programming and submitting
[12.0pt] assignments, including during lab. Students will need to bring their own laptop to the
[12.0pt] Friday lab sessions. The laptop should be set up with necessary compilers/software,
[12.0pt] or access to shared/online sources, sufficient to enable to students to write and test
[12.0pt] their own computer programs.
[12.0pt bold] Academic Integrity
[12.0pt] For this course, a significant amount of work will require solving problems for which a
[12.0pt] solution or test data might be available or posted online. Unless otherwise specified,
[12.0pt] students are  not allowed  to seek out or examine code/data for these problems on
[12.0pt] their own, prior to turning in their own solutions. Likewise, students should not read
[12.0pt] explanations of how to solve a specific problem prior to the original due date (i.e. the
[12.0pt bold] original deadline); note that reading a  description  of the solution  is  allowed  for
[12.0pt] problems solved after the deadline for half credit (i.e. during upsolving) . Accessing
[12.0pt] unallowed information will be considered a violation of the honor code, and students
[12.0pt] caught doing so will be referred to the honor council, regardless of whether the actual
[12.0pt] code is copied or not.
[12.0pt bold] Likewise , the use of ChatGPT, copilot, other LLM-based or similar code generators is
[12.0pt bold] not allowed at any point for this class . The purpose of this class is for you to
[12.0pt] understand how to write the code yourself.
[12.0pt bold] Students may be asked to meet with the instructor individually to discuss how
[12.0pt bold] their code works, and/or demonstrate how they coded their solution.  Students
[12.0pt] who are unable to do so satisfactorily may be assumed to have used an unauthorized
[12.0pt] source and may be reported to the honor council.
[12.0pt] Given the ease with which it may be possible to cheat in these ways, any violations
[12.0pt] should expect to receive the maximum penalty from the honor council.
[24.0pt bold] Honors Section Additional Information
[12.0pt] Welcome to the Honors section of CSCE 430. This is to explain the
[12.0pt] difference between how the honors section of the class and the
[12.0pt] regular sections of the class will operate.
[12.0pt] The lecture and the lab portions of the class will run as usual, in
[12.0pt] conjunction with the rest of the class.
[12.0pt] The weekly problem set assignments will be slightly different for
[12.0pt] you. Through the semester, there will be 14-16 weekly problem
[12.0pt] sets assigned. In 10 of those weeks, one of the problems will be
[12.0pt] designated as a non-honors problem, meaning it is not assigned to
[12.0pt] you. These problems will be identified on the canvas (discussion
[12.0pt] area) each week. Typically, this will be one of the easy or mid-
[12.0pt] range difficulty problems in the set. Please note that while you may
[12.0pt] solve these for your own benefit, you will not be able to get credit
[12.0pt] for them as bonus/extra credit or for upsolving.
[12.0pt] You will, instead, be required to create two problems yourself.
[12.0pt] Each of these problems will count as 5 solved problems for
[12.0pt] determining your grade. While generally a complete solution
[12.0pt] will receive all 5 points, you may receive less than 5 points if
[12.0pt] you do a poor job (e.g. insufficient test, poor writing, etc.),
[12.0pt] and the problem may not be accepted at all if you have not
[12.0pt] provided all parts.
[12.0pt] You must submit these problems to pass the class with more
[12.0pt] than a C. If you do not submit both problems, or if either of
[12.0pt] your problems is not accepted, your maximum grade in the
[12.0pt] class (regardless of all other items) will be a C.
[12.0pt] One problem is due Sunday, March 15 (i.e. end of Spring
[12.0pt] Break)
[12.0pt] A second problem is due Tuesday, April 28 (last day of class)
[12.0pt] Please note two things that have “caught” students in the past:
[12.0pt] It takes many students some effort to get the Kattis Tools
[12.0pt] working and checking results. You should allow plenty of time
[12.0pt] for this, in advance, and may expect to ask for help from (and
[12.0pt bold] offer help to) other students.  It is up to you  to get these
[12.0pt] working and testing your code with them. It will not be
[12.0pt] acceptable to submit code that does not pass.
[12.0pt] The effort expected on each problem is the equivalent of what
[12.0pt] it would take for 5 “regular” problems. That is, you should
[12.0pt] expect to devote time to this more than what you’d typically
[12.0pt] spend on a full week of regular problems. Though the task
[12.0pt] may seem simple at first, many things are required, and doing
[12.0pt] a thorough job will take significant effort. Do not assume this
[12.0pt] is something you can knock out easily in even just one full day
[12.0pt] of work.
[12.0pt] Here is what is required from you for your problem creation:
[12.0pt] You should create a problem that meets the requirements of
[12.0pt] the Kattis Problem Format. Detailed links to the format are
[12.0pt] below, but generally this means including:
[12.0pt] A problem description (.tex file giving the problem
[12.0pt] description, input format, and output format)
[12.0pt] One or more sample inputs, with corresponding outputs
[12.0pt bold] Multiple “secret” inputs used to  thoroughly  test your
[12.0pt] problem, with corresponding outputs. You must include
[12.0pt] tests that explore all edge cases, the extremes of input,
[12.0pt] typical inputs, and different patterns of input (when
[12.0pt] appropriate). Typically this will mean writing a program
[12.0pt] that can generate test cases.
[12.0pt] At least one correct solution to the problem
[12.0pt] An input verifier that can be used to verify that an input
[12.0pt] matches the requirements
[12.0pt] A metadata file
[12.0pt] If desired (these are NOT required), you may include:
[12.0pt] More than one correct solution program
[12.0pt] Examples of solutions that should return wrong
[12.0pt] answer, run-time error, or time-limit exceeded
[12.0pt] results (useful especially if you want to ensure only
[12.0pt] efficient implementations are accepted)
[12.0pt] An output validator (necessary if the output could
[12.0pt] have multiple correct answers or formats)
[12.0pt] Hint, Description, or Illustration files for the test
[12.0pt] data.
[12.0pt] The problem should pass the Kattis verification tools.
[12.0pt] A short writeup (for me) that describes the problem design
[12.0pt] I expect this will be ½ page to 1 page in length
[12.0pt] You should identify what the goal of the problem is, in
[12.0pt] terms of what concept(s) you are wanting to
[12.0pt] illustrate/test with the problem. For instance, if the
[12.0pt] problem is meant to involve a shortest-path algorithm,
[12.0pt] say so. If it’s meant to provide lots of corner cases, say
[12.0pt] that. If it’s meant to just involve a lot of programming
[12.0pt] that’s straightforward, say that.
[12.0pt] You should give a very brief explanation of how to solve
[12.0pt] the problem. That is, give a description for what a person
[12.0pt] is expected to do so that someone reading the
[12.0pt] description who is a decent programmer could go ahead
[12.0pt] and solve the problem.
[12.0pt] List anyone who helped you with the problem, and in
[12.0pt] what capacity (see below).
[12.0pt] The expectation is that these problems may be submitted to
[12.0pt] Kattis for possible use, either in future versions of this class,
[12.0pt] or for more general use.  If for some reason you do not wish to
[12.0pt] allow your problem(s) to be used in this way, please indicate
[12.0pt] so, clearly, in your writeup.
[12.0pt] At least one of your two problems should be something more
[12.0pt] than just a direct, simple application of a given algorithm. That
[12.0pt] is, it should cause the person solving it to have to do more
[12.0pt] than just implement a straightforward algorithm on a
[12.0pt] particular input format. Some examples of how this might
[12.0pt] work:
[12.0pt] Require someone to implement multiple algorithms
[12.0pt] together – e.g. combine a graph problem with a
[12.0pt] combinatorics problem. Or, transform one problem to
[12.0pt] another type then solve that.
[12.0pt] Create a problem that, in addition to having a direct
[12.0pt] solution, has a significant number of special cases that
[12.0pt] must be dealt with (possibly individually).
[12.0pt] Create a problem that requires an interesting and not-
[12.0pt] very-straightforward mapping from the problem
[12.0pt] description to an algorithm. That is, create a problem
[12.0pt] that on first reading might seem like one of type X, but
[12.0pt] actually requires a solution of type Y.
[12.0pt] At least one of your two problems should exhibit a time-
[12.0pt] constraint, where a poor choice of algorithm would lead to a
[12.0pt] Time Limit Exceeded result. For such problems, you should be
[12.0pt] sure that your problem submission includes a TLE program in
[12.0pt] the solution section, and that your test cases clearly separate
[12.0pt] good solutions from those that would give a TLE result
[12.0pt] Your submission should be zipped into a single file:
[12.0pt] The file should contain the problem writeup and a
[12.0pt] directory following the Kattis format for the problem
[12.0pt] information.
[12.0pt] This one .zip file should be uploaded to Canvas. Note that
[12.0pt] this is the only time in the class that Canvas will be used
[12.0pt] for submitting problems.
[12.0pt] To help ensure that you are on the right track, each person will
[12.0pt] need to meet individually with the instructor prior to the final
[12.0pt] problem deadline.  At this meeting, you should have a draft of
[12.0pt] the short writeup describing problem design (see above)
[12.0pt] available for me to review.  These meetings will be scheduled
[12.0pt] and held (possibly by zoom, possibly in person) over a 2-week
[12.0pt] period ending approximately 1.5 weeks before the problem
[12.0pt] deadline, specifically:
[12.0pt] For problem 1: Feb. 23-March 6
[12.0pt] For problem 2: April 13-24
[12.0pt] Please note: You should write all the required parts of the problem
[12.0pt] yourself, including a correct solution and the majority of the test
[12.0pt] cases. However, if you wish to include additional solutions (e.g. of
[12.0pt] wrong answers, or of multiple acceptable answers), you can include
[12.0pt] solutions written by other people. You may also include test cases
[12.0pt bold] provided by other people.  You are welcome to get feedback
[12.0pt bold] from others , have others “try” your problem on their own, etc.
[12.0pt] before submitting it. In fact, you are encouraged to do so – others
[12.0pt] will typically be able to identify and point out ambiguities or other
[12.0pt] issues. They might also be able to help identify cases you did not
[12.0pt] consider.
[12.0pt] I want this to be a fun and interesting experience. I believe you will
[12.0pt] find that the process of coming up with new problems is both
[12.0pt] challenging and intellectually stimulating.
[12.0pt] See information about the Problem formatting process at:
[12.0pt] https://www.kattis.com/problem-package-format/
[12.0pt] The Kattis problemtools repository (for verifying the problems) is
[12.0pt] available from github:
[12.0pt] https://github.com/Kattis/problemtools
[12.0pt] You may find it useful to use the BAPCtools to develop your
[12.0pt] problem:
[12.0pt] https://github.com/RagnarGrootKoerkamp/BAPCtools
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[11.0pt bold] The use of ChatGPT, copilot, other LLM-based or similar code generators is not allowed at
[11.0pt bold] any point for this class . While these tools are commonly used in professional practice, the
purpose of this class is for you to understand how to write the code even at the lowest levels
yourself.  Use of any of these systems is defeating a main purpose of the class, and thus is not
allowed.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
Galveston Students:
Technology Services - Help Desk
[10.5pt] E-mail:  Helpdesk@tamug.edu
[10.5pt] Phone: 409-740-4714
[10.5pt] Location: Bldg 3007 (CLB), Rm 113
[10.5pt] Hours: Monday - Friday 7:30am to 6:00pm
[10.5pt bold] Canvas LMS Technical Support
[10.5pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[10.5pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[10.5pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[10.5pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
[10.5pt] navigation menu.
[10.5pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
The lab times are not optional. You are expected to attend labs in-person on Fridays, and may
not submit to the lab from outside of the classroom. Missing a lab or leaving early is allowed,
but will result in missing the opportunity to earn points from solving problems during that
time period; unless the absence is excused, it will add to your base points.
Here are clarifications regarding how excused absences will be handled. Students missing a
timed individual or team lab for an excused reason will not have the base score for that
period used in their grade calculation (i.e. the base score will be 0); however, any problems
upsolved later for half credit will add to both the base (as half a problem) and the solved
portions of the grade. For the individual problems that students do on their own time (i.e.
weekly problem sets), it is expected that students will work on these problems throughout
the period of time they are assigned, so that any absences of less than 2 days should not
affect the student’s ability to complete the problems on time. If the student has an excused
absence of more than 2 days during the period for which the problems are assigned, the
student will be given a number of days equal to the length of the excused absence, less two
days, following the original due date or the student’s return (whichever is later). For example,
a student who is sick for 4 days during a week would have the deadline for individual
problems extended by 2 days. Note that the period for upsolving problems after the deadline
for half credit might not be extended, since coded solutions might be posted at that time.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Course Specific Makeup Work Policy
See information above regarding attendance policy.
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.