<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 439 Syllabus
Section 500 (58360)
Data Analytics for Cybersecurity
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MWF
Start Time: 08:00AM
End Time: 08:50AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  HRBB 113
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Zhiyuan Yu
Email:  zhiyuanyu@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 323
Phone:  979-845-5464
Office Hours
Monday after class, 9 AM - 10 AM
Preferred Contact Method
Email
Webpage:  https://zhiyuanyu.org/
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Data Analytics for Cybersecurity. (3-0). Credit 3. Theoretical foundations, algorithms
and methods of data analytics for cybersecurity; study of data analytics including
cluster analysis, supervised machine learning, anomaly detection, and visualization
applied to cyber attacks, anomaly detection, vulnerability analysis, strategic
manipulation, propaganda and other topics. Prerequisites: Grade of C or better in
CSCE 221; grade of C or better in ECEN 303, STAT 211, STAT 301, STAT 302, or STAT
303.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 221; grade of C or better
in ECEN 303, STAT 211, STAT 301, STAT 302, or STAT 303.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Define and explain the key concepts and models relevant to data analytics for
cybersecurity, including anomaly detection, data-driven vulnerability analysis,
and supervised machine learning.
Design, implement, and evaluate the core algorithms underlying an end-to-
end data analytics for cybersecurity workflow, including the experimental
design, data collection, mining, analysis, and presentation of information
derived from large datasets.
Apply "best practices" in data analytics for cybersecurity, including facility with
modern tools.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
A variety of scholarly papers, articles, and other resources.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
The grading scale will be:
A: grade>=90.0
B: 80.0<=grade<90.0
C: 70.0<=grade<80.0
D: 60.0<=grade<70.0
F: grade<60
The overall grade will be determined as follows:
Attendance 10%
Homework 20%
Midterm Exam 20%
Final Project Presentation 20%
Final Project Writeup 30%
Homework : There will be 4 individual programming-based homeworks, each
tackling a problem in data analytics for cybersecurity (e.g., anomaly detection in a
large dataset of credit card transactions). Homeworks will be in Python.
Final Project : For the project, students will work in teams of ~4 on a cybersecurity
problem that demonstrates the students’ facility with data analytics. At the end of
the semester, teams will deliver relevant code artifacts, a paper, and presentation
slides summarizing the project work.
Exams : The exam is closed-book. Students are allowed to bring one standard 8.5"
by 11" piece of paper with any notes deemed appropriate or significant (front and
back).
Class Participation : Attendance in class and participation in the discussion are
both important to success in the course. Students are expected to attend class, ask
questions, engage with the material, and participate actively in the course
discussions.
Grades for Stacked Course (UG/GR) :
CSCE 704: Your research goal should be advancing the body of knowledge by
implementing data analysis — something that might be suitable for a
conference publication.
CSCE 439: Your research goal could be advancing the body of knowledge or
attempting to reproduce the results of others. If the latter, it is not sufficient
to simply run someone else’s code; you need to show that you have
implemented a data analysis yourself.
The final project will be graded with these goals in mind.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
For the homework assignments, you have a total of 5 late days that you can use
during the semester. However, a single assignment can be submitted up to 3 days
late only, so we can post solutions in a timely fashion. For the purposes of the class,
a late day is an indivisible 24-hour unit. Once you exhaust your 5 late days, we will
not accept any late submissions. Work submitted late because of an excused
absence is not counted toward the allocation of late days, but may not be
combined with late days to extend past the 3 day total.
Missed exams will only be rescheduled for excused absences. If advanced notice is
not feasible, you have two working days to provide me notification (see Texas A&M
student rule 7), otherwise a zero will be given. A zero will be assigned for exams due
to an unexcused absence. Documentation must be submitted prior to taking a
missed exam.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Class Schedule
Week
Topics
Assignment Due
1
Introduction : Class Overview; Brief
Introduction of Security; How to Read Security
Papers
2
Fundamentals of ML Analytics : AI History;
Machine Learning Review — Algorithms
3
Fundamentals of ML Analytics : Machine
Learning Review — Metrics; Machine Learning
Review — Python; Neural Networks;
Homework #1 —
2/1/2026
4
Fundamentals of ML Analytics :
Convolutional Neural Networks; Generative AI
5
Anomaly Detection : Basics of Anomaly
Detection; Anomaly Detection in Practice;
Intrusion Detection
Homework #2 —
2/15/2026
6
Software Threats : Malware Detection;
Finding and Fixing Code Vulnerabilities
Online Fraud : Phishing Detection
7
Online Fraud : Fraud Detection; DeepFake
Homework #3 —
2/29/2026
8
Midterm Review; Midterm Exam
Midterm Exam —
3/4/2026
9
No class — Spring Break
10
Network Threats : Social Network Security;
Dark Web
11
Network Threats : Strategic Manipulation,
Propaganda, and Fake News
Insider Threats : Insider Threat Fundamentals
Homework #4 —
3/29/2026
12
Insider Threats : Insider Analytics: Behavioral
and Beyond;
Adaptive Attackers : Evasion Attacks
13
Adaptive Attackers : Poisoning Attacks;
Backdoor Attacks; Defending Adversarial
Examples
Week
Topics
Assignment Due
14
Adaptive Attackers : LLM Jailbreaking; LLM
Prompt Injection; In-class Practice of LLM
Jailbreaking
No submission required
if attending the class in
person
15
Finals : Final Project Presentations
Presentation Slides —
4/24/2026
—
Project Writeup —
5/8/2026;
(final grades released
by 5/11/2026)
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Writing : Use of AI tools, including ChatGPT, is permitted in this course for students
who wish to use them. To adhere to our scholarly values, students must cite any AI-
generated material that informed their work (this includes in-text citations and/or
use of quotations, and in their reference list). Using an AI tool to generate content
without proper attribution qualifies as academic dishonesty. See
[10.5pt] https://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/qanda/data/faq/topics/Documentation/faq0422.ht
ml   for information on how to properly cite AI tools.
(adapted from  https://ai.tamu.edu/_files/_documents/tamu-cte-genai-syllabus-
statement-considerations.pdf )
Computer Code . In principle, you may submit AI-generated code, or code that is
based on or derived from AI-generated code, as long as this use is properly
documented in the comments: you need to include the prompt and the significant
parts of the response. AI tools may help you avoid syntax errors, but there is no
guarantee that the generated code is correct. It is your responsibility to identify
errors in program logic through comprehensive, documented testing. Moreover,
generated code, even if syntactically correct, may have significant scope for
improvement, in particular regarding separation of concerns and avoiding
repetitions. The submission itself must meet our standards of attribution and
validation.
(from Boris Steipe (2023) “Syllabus Resources”. The Sentient Syllabus
Project  http://sentientsyllabus.org/ .)
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
Galveston Students:
Technology Services - Help Desk
[10.5pt] E-mail:  Helpdesk@tamug.edu
[10.5pt] Phone: 409-740-4714
[10.5pt] Location: Bldg 3007 (CLB), Rm 113
[10.5pt] Hours: Monday - Friday 7:30am to 6:00pm
[10.5pt bold] Canvas LMS Technical Support
[10.5pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[10.5pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[10.5pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[10.5pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
[10.5pt] navigation menu.
[10.5pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] Learning Resources
The University Writing Center (UWC) has trained peer consultants available to work
with you on any kind of writing or speaking project, including research papers, lab
reports, application essays, or creative writing, and at any stage of your process,
whether you're deciding on a topic or reviewing your final draft. You can also get
help with public speaking, presentations, and group projects. They can work with
you in person at their Evans or BLCC locations or via Zoom or email. To schedule an
appointment or to view their handouts, videos, or interactive learning modules, visit
writingcenter.tamu.edu . If you have questions, need help making an appointment,
or encounter difficulty accessing services, call 979-458-1455 or email
uwc@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.