<!-- body_font:13.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 120 Syllabus
[11.0pt] Section 506 (46246)
[11.0pt] Program Design and Concepts
[11.0pt] Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
[11.0pt] Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
[11.0pt] Meeting Days: MW
[11.0pt] Start Time: 4:10PM
[11.0pt] End Time: 5:25PM
[11.0pt] Start Date: 01/12/2026
[11.0pt] End Date: 05/05/2026
[11.0pt] Meeting Location:  ZACH 350
[11.0pt] Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
[11.0pt] Meeting Days: W
[11.0pt] Start Time: 09:10AM
[11.0pt] End Time: 10:00AM
[11.0pt] Start Date: 01/12/2026
[11.0pt] End Date: 05/05/2026
[11.0pt] Meeting Location:  ZACH 584
[11.0pt] Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
[11.0pt] Amit Merchant
[11.0pt] Email:  amit.merchant@tamu.edu
[11.0pt] Office Location:  PETR112
[11.0pt] Phone:  979-458-6817
[11.0pt] Office Hours
[11.0pt] Fri 11-12, 2-3 pm
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
[11.0pt] Program Design and Concepts. (3-1). Credit 3. Extension of prior programming
[11.0pt] knowledge and creation of computer programs that solve problems; use of the C++
[11.0pt] language; application of computational thinking to enhance problem solving;
[11.0pt] analysis of, design of and implementation of computer programs; use of basic and
[11.0pt] aggregate data types to develop functional and object oriented solutions;
[11.0pt] development of classes that use dynamic memory and avoid memory leaks; study
[11.0pt] of error handling strategies to develop more secure and robust programs.
[11.0pt] Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in ENGR 102, CSCE 110, CSCE 111, CSCE 206 or
[11.0pt] PHYS 150.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
[11.0pt] Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in ENGR 102, CSCE 110,
[11.0pt] CSCE 111, CSCE 206 or PHYS 150.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, you will be able to:
Develop  and apply algorithmic reasoning to solve complex
problems.
Explain
common programming concepts including abstraction,
information hiding, object-oriented decomposition, and
recursion,
control structures including sequence, selection, iteration,
and function invocation, and
data types including arrays, vectors, linked lists, structs, and
classes.
Analyze  a computing problem,  evaluate  different programming
design choices, and  develop  a program to solve the problem.
Write  documented code that follows common code readability
practices and uses strategies to reduce and address errors.
Analyze  code with debugging tools to find and fix errors.
Contrast  different approaches to handling memory and  write
programs that avoid memory leaks and unintended memory side
effects.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
[11.0pt] None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
[11.0pt] This material Is: Required
[11.0pt] Learn C++ (Online Textbook)
[11.0pt] URL for Resource:  https://www.learncpp.com/
[16.0pt] Additional Instructional Materials
[11.0pt] This Material is: Required
[11.0pt] Computer (Preferably with Camera)
[11.0pt] Notes:
[11.0pt] Notes:
[11.0pt] You must have your own computer for consuming online content that fulfills
[11.0pt] the  Texas A&M Computer Requirements .
[11.0pt] You will have to install software on it. We will provide links to software you can
[11.0pt] install for the course and procedures for setting things up.
[11.0pt] Many office hours are provided online so having a camera helps you utilize
[11.0pt] those resources.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Grades will be assigned according to the following scale:
Grading Scale
Rounded % total
Letter Grade
100 - 90
A
<90 and  ≥  80
B
<80 and  ≥  70
C
<70 and  ≥  60
D
<60
F
These grades represent varying degrees of achievement (see
the  university's grading system ): A = excellent, B = good, C =
satisfactory, D = passing, F = failing.
If you want to challenge any grading, you must do so within one week
of when the grade is published.
We reserve the right to audit the grades for any assignments
submitted to this course. During the audit process, we can decrease or
increase your score. This could result in lowering the score of already
released grades.
Homework (20%)
Homework assignments are completed individually outside of class
and submitted weekly.
You may discuss with other students in the course.
You may not discuss with students not taking the course.
If you discuss, you must clearly identify who you discussed
with in your code submission.
You should not copy code from another student and you
should not provide your code to another student; each of
you must write your own code independently.
All detected plagiarism, cheating, complicity, and AI use will be
reported to the  Aggie Honor System Office . Examples include, but
are not limited to:
Writing code with AI tools such as ChatGPT or Copilot.
This includes not just copy-pasting code from an AI,
but also asking AI to explain the prompt or for help
debugging.
You should not use AI in any capacity for the
homework assignments in this course.
Previously used code from Chegg or similar tutoring
websites; using such resources is not allowed.
Submitting code based on a solution or on starting code
from such a resource is considered plagiarism.
For resources that have not been explicitly allowed by the
course, check with your instructor or TA first before using
them.
Some homework assignments will include extra credit. However,
your homework average will be capped at a maximum of 100%.
Your course homework score is the average of your homework
scores.
You may resubmit redemption versions of the homework
through the last day of classes.
Homework scores will be the maximum between the original
homework score OR the average of the original homework score
and the redemption homework score.
Labwork (10%)
Labwork activities are designed to help you better understand
concepts that students traditionally struggle with or are integral to
know before doing homework.
You must work collaboratively in person with other students
during your lab session.
Even though you will work collaboratively, you will submit
individually.
To get completion credit you must:
Fulfill what is required in the lab prompt for completion of
that particular labwork.
Attend the lab session in person, submit documentation for
an excused absence, or be one of two free absences that do
not require documentation.
Your course labwork score is the average of lab completion credits.
Midterm Exams (36%)
The average of your midterm exam grades with the lowest midterm
exam grade dropped. Midterm exams are paper-only (no computers
allowed) and taken during your lab session.
Final Exam (24%)
Cumulative, paper-only (no computers allowed) and taken in your
lecture room during your lecture exam time set by the registrar.
Readings (5%)
Your course reading score is the average of your weekly Perusall
reading assignment scores plus 15 percentage points to a maximum
of 100 percent. This allows you to miss some reading assignments
without negatively impacting your score. For example, a friend has a
personal crisis, and you choose to console them instead of doing
some Perusall reading assignments. You do not have to ask the
instructor for special consideration since it is built into the course.
Class Engagement (5%)
Your instructor will give you activities that can include quizzes and
“check-ins” to assess your participation with class materials.
Your class engagement score is the score determined by your
instructor plus 15 percentage points to a maximum of 100 percent.
This allows you to miss some class engagement without negatively
impacting your score. For example, you had a flat tire on the way to
campus that caused you to miss an engagement activity in class. You
do not have to ask the instructor for special consideration since it is
built into the course.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
[11.0pt] Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
[11.0pt] considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
It is  your  responsibility to keep up with the class, even when
unexpected events interfere.
See the Course Specific Makeup Work Policy for details on excused
absence documentation and exam make ups.
Homework Late Work
You have up to 10 late days you can distribute among all homework
assignments with a maximum of 4 days on a single homework.
To get credit for late submissions, you must submit your late
homework assignments to the redemption version of the
homework.
You must submit the "Late Homework Days Request ” form
under “Student Resources” in Canvas  to have a redemption score
used in place of your original submission.
You should complete any homework before submitting late
day requests.
For late homework due to an excused absence, see the Course
Specific Make Up Work Policy section of the syllabus for
submitting excused absence documentation.
You still must submit to the redemption version of the
assignment.
When the excused absence documentation is processed,
the highest score submitted to the redemption by the
extended due date will be used as your homework score.
You may request additional days beyond an excused
absence by submitting the form for “Late Homework Days
Request” under “Student Resources” in Canvas.
Note:  The autograding system will give you the maximum score you
earn. This allows you to keep credit for a passing version even if you
“break” your code while trying to pass more test cases which
commonly happens when trying to improve your score. We want you
to improve your score and not be scared about lowering your score.
Note:  Network congestion frequently increases close to deadlines. So,
waiting to submit until the last minute can easily lead to it becoming a
late submission.  We suggest finishing an assignment several hours
in advance to ensure it is on time.  You should also submit
periodically as you develop your solution to get feedback from the
autograding system. However, you should focus on debugging locally
rather than submitting to the autograder and using it as a debugging
tool.
Labwork Late Work
Labwork will be accepted through the end of the day following your lab
session. For labs missed due to excused absences, see the Course
Specific Makeup Work Policy.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Topics and Midterm Exam Schedule
The course schedule is tentative and subject to change.
Topic and Midterm Exam Schedule
Week   Topics
Exams
1
What you (should) already know, but in C++
2
Vectors and Strings
3
Vectors and Strings; Errors and
Debugging;  Object-Oriented Concepts
4
Object-Oriented Concepts; Design and Testing
5
Exceptions; Input/Output Streams
Exam 1
6
Input/Output Streams
7
Functions – Pass by Reference; Implementing
Classes
8
Operator Overloading
Week   Topics
Exams
9
Dynamic Memory; C-style Arrays
10
Dynamic Arrays
Exam 2
11
Classes with Dynamic Memory
12
Classes with Dynamic Memory
13
Linked Lists
Exam 3
14
Inheritance and Polymorphism
15
Recursion
Final Exam Schedule
The final exam schedule is  set by the university .
Final Exam Times and Locations
Sections
Instructor
Exam Date / Time
Location
200
Thomas
May 4 (M) 3:30 PM -
5:30 PM
ZACH 350
250
Tran
May 1 (F) 8:00 AM -
10:00 AM
MAIN 212
500-502
Beideman
May 4 (M) 10:30 AM -
12:30 PM
ZACH 310
503-505
Beideman
May 1 (F) 3:30 PM -
5:30 PM
ZACH 310
506-508
Merchant
May 1 (F) 3:30 PM -
5:30 PM
ZACH 350
509-510
Thomas
May 4 (M) 3:30 PM -
5:30 PM
ZACH 350
511-513
Ritchey
May 4 (M) 10:30 AM -
12:30 PM
ZACH 244
514-516
Ritchey
May 1 (F) 3:30 PM -
5:30 PM
ZACH 244
Sections
Instructor
Exam Date / Time
Location
517-519
Leyk
May 1 (F) 10:30 AM -
12:30 PM
ZACH 244
520-522
Leyk
May 4 (M) 3:30 PM -
5:30 PM
ZACH 244
550
Tran
May 1 (F) 8:00 AM -
10:00 AM
MAIN 212
Labwork Due Dates
Labs are done during your lab session. While it is preferred that you
submit during your lab session, you can submit them through the end
of the following day.
Homework Due Dates
The normal pattern is every Friday:
1. Friday, January 23
2. Friday, January 30
3. Friday, February 6
4. Friday, February 20
5. Friday, February 27
6. Friday, March 6
7. Friday, March 20
8. Friday, April 3
9. Friday, April 10
10. Friday, April 24
Any extensions will be posted under Announcements on the course
Canvas homepage.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
Course Copyright
The materials used within this course are copyrighted. These materials
include, but are not limited to, syllabi, quizzes, exams, homework and
labwork problems, online handouts, course videos, audio and visual
recordings of classes, etc. Because these materials are copyrighted,
you do not have the right to copy or distribute these materials unless
permission is expressly granted.
Respect for All
Accessibility Statement
Howdy! Your CSCE 120 instructors want you to do well in this
challenging course. While the  Disability Accommodation Portal (AIM
Portal)  eases sharing accommodation information, you should
still  make an appointment with your section’s instructor  to discuss
your accommodations. In addition to accommodations, we would be
happy to discuss strategies for succeeding in this course.
We encourage you to get your accommodations, even if you don’t
feel you will need them.  When Dr. Moore started teaching at Texas
A&M, he noticed a disturbing pattern. Students would take their first
exam without using their accommodations. Frequently, students said
they just wanted to try it without the accommodation. After the first
exam, there would be a rush of students requesting accommodations.
These instances have greatly decreased since we’ve been explicit.
While Dr. Moore suspected students did not disclose due to negative
experiences with prior instructors, we want students to know the
culture in our department is to happily provide needed
accommodations approved by Disability Resources.
“We prefer that you get your accommodations and not need
them, rather than trying without your accommodations and
finding out that you needed them.”
Everyone should be cognizant of creating artifacts and software that
are accessible. If you major in computer science or computer
engineering, you can take a course on Accessible Computing (CSCE
432) that Dr. Moore developed to train computer scientists to consider
accessibility as they create technology.
Professionalism and Respect
You are expected to treat your instructor and all other participants in
the course with courtesy and respect. Your comments to others
should be factual, constructive, and free from harassing statements.
You are encouraged to disagree with other students, but
such  disagreements need to be based upon facts and
documentation  (rather than prejudices and personalities).
Unprofessional or disrespectful conduct will result in a lower grade on
an assignment. Warnings will not be given; part of the learning process
in this course is the respectful engagement of ideas with others.
Students will need to contribute in intelligent, positive, and
constructive manners within the course. Behaviors that are abusive,
disruptive, or harassing may result in disciplinary actions as specified
within the Student Rules.
Sensitive or controversial topics might be discussed in this course.
Comments posted within this course are to remain confidential to the
audience of this course; do not copy or share messages or writings
from this course with others, not in this course section.
Students in this course are also responsible for being familiar with
the  University’s student rules and policies .
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Artificial Intelligence (AI) text generators and natural language
processing tools (colloquially, chatbots - such as ChatGPT), audio,
computer code, video, and image generators  must not be used in
any way  for completing assignments or assessments in this course.
This includes not just copying code from AI tools but also using AI tools
to summarize the homework prompt, to get high level algorithmic
ideas or to debug your code. Students engaging in AI use to complete
course work will be reported and sanctioned.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
[11.0pt] Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
[11.0pt] Hours: 24/7
[11.0pt] Phone: (979) 845-8300
[11.0pt] Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
[11.0pt] Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
[11.0pt] Canvas LMS Technical Support
[11.0pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[11.0pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[11.0pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[11.0pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
[11.0pt] navigation menu.
[11.0pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[11.0pt] Galveston Students:
[11.0pt] Technology Services - Help Desk
[10.5pt] E-mail:  Helpdesk@tamug.edu
[10.5pt] Phone: 409-740-4714
[10.5pt] Location: Bldg 3007 (CLB), Rm 113
[10.5pt] Hours: Monday - Friday 7:30am to 6:00pm
[10.5pt bold] Canvas LMS Technical Support
[10.5pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[10.5pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[10.5pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[10.5pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
[10.5pt] navigation menu.
[10.5pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] University Policies
[11.0pt] This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
[11.0pt] course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
[11.0pt] these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
[11.0pt] “An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
[11.0pt] “Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
[11.0pt] submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
[11.0pt] the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
[11.0pt] appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
[11.0pt] instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
[11.0pt] case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
[11.0pt] You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
[11.0pt] academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
[11.0pt] The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
[11.0pt] responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
[11.0pt] assignments.
[11.0pt] Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
[11.0pt] absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
[11.0pt] Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
[11.0pt] when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
[11.0pt] Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
[11.0pt] Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
[11.0pt] including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[11.0pt] Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
[11.0pt] a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
[11.0pt] work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
[11.0pt] 7.4.1 ).
[11.0pt] “The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
[11.0pt] make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
[11.0pt] 7.4.2 ).
[11.0pt] Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
[11.0pt] Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Course Specific Makeup Work Policy
It is  your  responsibility to keep up with the class, even when
unexpected events interfere.
Absence Documentation
Before you can do any make-up work, you must provide your
instructor with any documentation for your absence through the link
provided in Canvas. Even if you email your instructor, you must also
submit that information in Canvas.
Submit any documentation for absences by following the link
provided on the course Canvas homepage under “Student
Resources” for “Absence Documentation Submission.” An email
to your instructor is not sufficient.
Note that documentation can be a typed out reasoning that is
exactly what students email professors when they’re not sure if it
is excused. Submit to the link rather than sending the email.
Exam Make Up
You may only make up exams missed due to an excused absence.
Note that if advanced notice is not feasible, you have two business
days to provide notification.
A zero will be assigned for exams due to an unexcused absence.
Documentation must be submitted prior to making up for a missed
exam.
If you miss an exam due to an excused absence, you must take the
make up exam on the designated date and time:
Exam 1 Make Up: Monday, Feb 16 at 7:30 PM in PETR 120
Exam 2 Make Up: Monday, Mar 30 at 7:30 PM in PETR 120
Exam 3 Make Up: Monday, Apr 20 at 7:30 PM in PETR 120
If you have problems with these times, discuss options with your
instructor.
Readings and Engagement
Readings and engagement are about what you are doing to keep up in
the course, so they cannot be made up long after the fact. However,
excused absences will extend due dates for readings and engagement
according to the specific instructor’s engagement activities.
Homework
Late and make up homework is addressed in the Course Specific Late
Work Policy section.
Labwork
You should always complete labwork, even if you will not receive credit
since it will help with upcoming homework assignments and exams.
Part of your labwork completion credit is attending the lab session.
If you have a valid reason to miss a lab session:
Complete the lab activity as soon as possible.
Submit the absence documentation form in Canvas to get
an excused absence for missing a lab session.
Each student will get attendance credit for  up to two absences
not covered  by an excused absence documentation submission.
As with excused absences, you must still complete the lab activity.
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
[11.0pt] learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
[11.0pt] community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
[11.0pt] applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
[11.0pt] sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
[11.0pt] disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
[11.0pt] complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
[11.0pt] and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
[11.0pt] Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
[11.0pt] Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
[11.0pt] accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
[11.0pt] discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
[11.0pt] admissions and employment.
[11.0pt] The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
[11.0pt] regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
[11.0pt] Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
[11.0pt] email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
[11.0pt] Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
[11.0pt] address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
[11.0pt] 3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
[11.0pt] and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
[11.0pt] discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
[11.0pt] pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
[11.0pt] information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
[11.0pt] includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
[11.0pt] sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
[11.0pt] Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
[11.0pt] learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
[11.0pt] Rights & Title IX webpage .
[11.0pt] Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
[11.0pt] health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
[11.0pt] experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
[11.0pt] discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
[11.0pt] who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
[11.0pt] report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
[11.0pt] opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
[11.0pt] disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
[11.0pt] office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
[11.0pt] limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
[11.0pt] conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
[11.0pt] with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
[11.0pt] To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
[11.0pt] your location:
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
[11.0pt] Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
[11.0pt] Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
[11.0pt] School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
[11.0pt] Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
[11.0pt] McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
[11.0pt] Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
[11.0pt] Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
[11.0pt] accommodations.
[11.0pt] Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
[11.0pt] Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
[11.0pt] 3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
[11.0pt] in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
[11.0pt] A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
[11.0pt] If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
[11.0pt] office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
[11.0pt] Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
[11.0pt] Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
[11.0pt] and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
[11.0pt] should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
[11.0pt] aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
[11.0pt] accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
[11.0pt] changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
[11.0pt] environment.
[11.0pt] Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
[11.0pt] lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
[11.0pt] equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
[11.0pt] pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
[11.0pt] influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
[11.0pt] encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
[11.0pt] services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
[11.0pt] Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
[11.0pt] anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
[11.0pt] hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
[11.0pt] Texas A&M College Station
[11.0pt] Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
[11.0pt] 979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
[11.0pt] experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
[11.0pt] emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
[11.0pt] 988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
[11.0pt] FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
[11.0pt] limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
[11.0pt] review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
[11.0pt] inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
[11.0pt] Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
[11.0pt] items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
[11.0pt] Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
[11.0pt] policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
[11.0pt] Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
[11.0pt] security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
[11.0pt] be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
[11.0pt] of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
[11.0pt] Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
[11.0pt] address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
[11.0pt] attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
[11.0pt] institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
[11.0pt] officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
[11.0pt] residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
[11.0pt] Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
[11.0pt] is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
[11.0pt] has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
[11.0pt] accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
[11.0pt] civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
[11.0pt] and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
[11.0pt] learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
[11.0pt] website  about the First Amendment.