<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 447 Syllabus
Section 500 (60293)
Data Visualization
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MWF
Start Time: 10:20AM
End Time: 11:10AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  HRBB 113
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Meng Xia
Email:  mengxia@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 339
Phone:  979-845-3839
Office Hours
By appointment
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Data Visualization. (3-0). Credit 3. Visual representation and design of data and
information; 3D visualization, infographics, data narratives, principles of visual data
encoding and interaction techniques. Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in VIST 272,
or CSCE 221, or CSCE 441. Cross-listed with VIST 476.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
This course provides a comprehensive introduction to the field of data visualization
and visual analytics, guiding students through both foundational concepts and
advanced techniques in visual representation. Beginning with an overview of data
types and visual analytic tasks, students will explore key frameworks, including the
Nested Model of Visual Analytics and principles of marks and channels. Advanced
topics covered include multivariate, sequential, spatial, network, and text
visualization, and the integration of multiple views for more complex datasets.
Innovative areas like data storytelling, augmented and virtual reality (AR/VR) for data,
and the role of data visualization in Explainable AI, as well as e-learning, are also
discussed, offering students a forward-thinking perspective on the field. Through
hands-on tutorials in D3 and Vega-Lite and later in web programming, students will
gain practical skills for crafting interactive visualizations. Students will present
project pitches, receive feedback, and collaborate on projects, culminating in final
presentations.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in VIST 272, or CSCE 221, or
CSCE 441. Cross Listing: VIST 476/CSCE 447.
There will be assignments and projects that involve programming in
HTML/CSS/JavaScript for the UI part, and Python for data and AI. While having
programming experience in both is great, it is not required.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
At the end of the course, students will be able to:
Analyze diverse data types (e.g., categorical, quantitative, temporal, spatial,
network, and text data) and map visual analytical tasks to appropriate visual
marks and encoding channels.
Compare, select, and justify visualization techniques for multivariate,
sequential, spatial, network, and text data based on data characteristics,
analytical goals, and perceptual effectiveness.
Apply the Nested Model for Visualization Design and established Rules of
Thumb to design, implement, and refine visual analytic systems.
Evaluate state-of-the-art data visualization applications in domains such as
data storytelling, immersive analytics (AR/VR), explainable AI, e-learning, and
digital twins, using design principles and empirical evidence.
Design and develop an end-to-end data visualization project on a topic of the
student’s choice, including problem formulation, data preparation,
visualization design, implementation, and evaluation.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Visualization Analysis and Design
Authors:  Tamara Munzner
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[12.0pt] Students are required to complete a course project over the course of the
[12.0pt] semester. Undergraduate students may choose any tools or platforms for
[12.0pt] implementation. Graduate students must implement their project using the
[12.0pt] D3.js visualization library: 50%
[12.0pt] Reading responses (students are expected to read papers and give their
[12.0pt] comments on papers assigned): 20%
[12.0pt] Assignments (students are expected to submit a series of assignments, which
[12.0pt] they must do individually; these assignments are about analyzing and
[12.0pt] visualizing data): 20%
[12.0pt] Class participation: 10%
[12.0pt] The grading scale will be:
[12.0pt] A = 90-100
[12.0pt] B = 80-89
[12.0pt] C = 70-79
[12.0pt] D = 60-69
[12.0pt] F = <60
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
You'll lose 10% for each late day. Submissions will be accepted until three days after
the deadline. After that, you'll get 0 on that assignment.
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempted from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
The student is responsible for informing the instructor in a timely manner about
excused absences. The instructor will then work with the student to catch up on
their submissions, including missed group class participation.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Course Schedule
[12.0pt] Week Date
[12.0pt] Topic
[12.0pt] Due
[12.0pt] 1
[12.0pt] 12-Jan-
[12.0pt] 26   Introduction & Course Overview
[12.0pt] 1
[12.0pt] 14-Jan-
[12.0pt] 26   Data Visualization History
[12.0pt] 1
[12.0pt] 16-Jan-
[12.0pt] 26   Data Types
[12.0pt] 2
[12.0pt] 19-Jan-
[12.0pt] 26
[12.0pt] Martin Luther King, Jr. Day - No
[12.0pt] classes
[12.0pt] 2
[12.0pt] 21-Jan-
[12.0pt] 26   Visual Analytics Tasks
[12.0pt] Week Date
[12.0pt] Topic
[12.0pt] Due
[12.0pt] 2
[12.0pt] 23-Jan-
[12.0pt] 26   Nested Model of Visual Analytics   Reading #1
[12.0pt] 3
[12.0pt] 26-Jan-
[12.0pt] 26   Marks and Channels
[12.0pt] 3
[12.0pt] 28-Jan-
[12.0pt] 26   Color
[12.0pt] 3
[12.0pt] 30-Jan-
[12.0pt] 26   Rules of Thumb
[12.0pt] Reading #2
[12.0pt] 4
[12.0pt] 2-Feb-
[12.0pt] 26   Visualizing Table Data (Part 1)
[12.0pt] 4
[12.0pt] 4-Feb-
[12.0pt] 26   Visualizing Table Data (Part 2)
[12.0pt] 4
[12.0pt] 6-Feb-
[12.0pt] 26
[12.0pt] Visualizing Sequential Data
[12.0pt] (Part 1)
[12.0pt] Reading #3
[12.0pt] 5
[12.0pt] 9-Feb-
[12.0pt] 26
[12.0pt] Visualizing Sequential Data
[12.0pt] (Part 2)
[12.0pt] Project 0: Team
[12.0pt] formation
[12.0pt] 5
[12.0pt] 11-Feb-
[12.0pt] 26   Visualizing Spatial Data
[12.0pt] 5
[12.0pt] 13-Feb-
[12.0pt] 26   Visualizing Networks
[12.0pt] Reading #4
[12.0pt] 6
[12.0pt] 16-Feb-
[12.0pt] 26   Visualizing Text (Part 1)
[12.0pt] 6
[12.0pt] 18-Feb-
[12.0pt] 26   Visualizing Text (Part 2)
[12.0pt] 6
[12.0pt] 20-Feb-
[12.0pt] 26   Project Discussion
[12.0pt] Assignment #1
[12.0pt] 7
[12.0pt] 23-Feb-
[12.0pt] 26   Proposal Presentation (Part 1)
[12.0pt] 7
[12.0pt] 25-Feb-
[12.0pt] 26   Proposal Presentation (Part 2)
[12.0pt] 7
[12.0pt] 27-Feb-
[12.0pt] 26   Proposal Presentation (Part 3)
[12.0pt] Project 1: Proposal
[12.0pt] 8
[12.0pt] 2-Mar-
[12.0pt] 26   Tutorial: Tableau
[12.0pt] 8
[12.0pt] 4-Mar-
[12.0pt] 26   Tutorial: Vega-Lite
[12.0pt] 8
[12.0pt] 6-Mar-
[12.0pt] 26   Tutorial: D3.js
[12.0pt] Week Date
[12.0pt] Topic
[12.0pt] Due
[12.0pt] 9
[12.0pt] 9-Mar-
[12.0pt] 26   Spring Break
[12.0pt] 9
[12.0pt] 11-Mar-
[12.0pt] 26   Spring Break
[12.0pt] 9
[12.0pt] 13-Mar-
[12.0pt] 26   Spring Break
[12.0pt] 10
[12.0pt] 16-Mar-
[12.0pt] 26   Tutorial: Web Programming
[12.0pt] 10
[12.0pt] 18-Mar-
[12.0pt] 26
[12.0pt] Evaluating Data Visualization
[12.0pt] (Part 1)
[12.0pt] 10
[12.0pt] 20-Mar-
[12.0pt] 26
[12.0pt] Evaluating Data Visualization
[12.0pt] (Part 2)
[12.0pt] 11
[12.0pt] 23-Mar-
[12.0pt] 26   Prototype Presentation (Part 1)
[12.0pt] 11
[12.0pt] 25-Mar-
[12.0pt] 26   Prototype Presentation (Part 2)
[12.0pt] 11
[12.0pt] 27-Mar-
[12.0pt] 26   Prototype Presentation (Part 3)
[12.0pt] Project 2: Prototype
[12.0pt] 12
[12.0pt] 30-Mar-
[12.0pt] 26   Application: Data Storytelling
[12.0pt] 12
[12.0pt] 1-Apr-
[12.0pt] 26
[12.0pt] Application: Immersive Data
[12.0pt] Visualization
[12.0pt] 12
[12.0pt] 3-Apr-
[12.0pt] 26   Reading Day - No Classes
[12.0pt] 13
[12.0pt] 6-Apr-
[12.0pt] 26   TopVis Competition (Part 1)
[12.0pt] 13
[12.0pt] 8-Apr-
[12.0pt] 26   TopVis Competition (Part 2)
[12.0pt] 13
[12.0pt] 10-Apr-
[12.0pt] 26   TopVis Competition (Part 3)
[12.0pt] Assignment #2
[12.0pt] 14
[12.0pt] 13-Apr-
[12.0pt] 26   Application: Explainable AI
[12.0pt] 14
[12.0pt] 15-Apr-
[12.0pt] 26   Application: E-Learning
[12.0pt] 14
[12.0pt] 17-Apr-
[12.0pt] 26   Application: Digital Twin
[12.0pt] 15
[12.0pt] 20-Apr-
[12.0pt] 26   Final Presentations (Part 1)
[12.0pt] Project 3:
[12.0pt] Presentation
[12.0pt] Week Date
[12.0pt] Topic
[12.0pt] Due
[12.0pt] 15
[12.0pt] 22-Apr-
[12.0pt] 26   Final Presentations (Part 2)
[12.0pt] 15
[12.0pt] 24-Apr-
[12.0pt] 26   Final Presentations (Part 3)
[12.0pt] 16
[12.0pt] 27-Apr-
[12.0pt] 26   Final Review & Grade Appeal
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.