<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 765 Syllabus
Section 600 (58433)
Network Security
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 2:20PM
End Time: 3:35PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  HRBB 113
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Drew Hamilton
Email:  hamilton@tamu.edu
Office Location:  Peterson 223
Phone:  979-845-2758
Office Hours
by appointment
Preferred Contact Method
email
Biography
[12.0pt] John A. “Drew” Hamilton, Jr. is the Director of the
[12.0pt] Texas A&M University Cybersecurity Center and a
[12.0pt] professor of computer science & engineering. Dr.
[12.0pt] Hamilton has a joint appointment with Idaho
[12.0pt] National Laboratory and is a guest scientist at Los
[12.0pt] Alamos National Laboratory. In the four and half
[12.0pt] years Dr. Hamilton has been at Texas A&M he has
[12.0pt] received four Engineering Genesis Awards. At
[12.0pt] Mississippi State University he was the Founding
[12.0pt] Director for the Center for Cyber Innovation.
[12.0pt] Previously he held an endowed chair as Alumni
[12.0pt] Professor of Computer Science and Software
[12.0pt] Engineering with joint appointments in Industrial &
[12.0pt] Systems Engineering and in Management at Auburn
[12.0pt] University and was the Founding Director of the
[12.0pt] Auburn Cyber Research Center. Dr. Hamilton is a
[12.0pt] Fellow of the Society for Modeling & Simulation
[12.0pt] International (SCS), Past Chair of Association for
[12.0pt] Computing Machinery’s (ACM) Special Interest
[12.0pt] Group on Ada (SIGAda) and Past Chair of ACM’s
[12.0pt] Special Interest Group on Simulation (SIGSIM). Dr.
[12.0pt] Hamilton is a senior member of the Institute of
[12.0pt] Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
[12.0pt] During his active duty career in the United States
[12.0pt] Army, he served in several field artillery command
[12.0pt] and staff assignments and qualified in nuclear /
[12.0pt] chemical targeting. Dr. Hamilton served as the
[12.0pt] Director of the Officer Training Department at the US
[12.0pt] Army Computer Science School at Fort Gordon. He
[12.0pt] was a member of the Electrical Engineering &
[12.0pt] Computer Science Faculty of the United States
[12.0pt] Military Academy, West Point where he served as
[12.0pt] the department research director. He led DOD
[12.0pt] program offices with multi-million dollar budgets at
[12.0pt] the Defense Information Systems Agency and the
[12.0pt] Space and Naval Warfare Systems Command.
[12.0pt] Dr. Hamilton has a B.A. in Journalism from Texas
[12.0pt] Tech University, an M.S. in Systems Management
[12.0pt] from the University of Southern California, an M.S. in
[12.0pt] Computer Science from Vanderbilt University and a
[12.0pt] Ph.D. in Computer Science from Texas A&M
[12.0pt] University. Dr. Hamilton is a distinguished graduate
[12.0pt] of the U.S. Naval War College.
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Network Security. (3-0). Credit 3. Fundamental vulnerabilities of the networking
communications and corresponding defense mechanisms covering cryptographic
algorithms with the primary intent to correctly apply them for real-work network
security applications and protocols; vulnerabilities associated within the networking
infrastructures; design of defense mechanisms to defeat vulnerabilities;
investigation of various layers of the networking stack when incorporating the
security mechanisms. Prerequisites: Graduate classification.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Graduate classification.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
describe and analyze the cryptographic algorithms with the primary intent to
correctly apply them for real-work network security applications and protocols.
describe and analyze the vulnerabilities associated within the networking
infrastructures, and design defense mechanisms to defeat these vulnerabilities.
describe and analyze secure email communications protocols and apply them in
practice.
describe and analyze secure web communications protocols and apply them in
practice.
describe and analyze secure communications protocols using virtual private networks and
wireless channels and apply them in practice.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Optional
No Textbook Needed
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
List of graded events
[12.0pt] Event
Points
[12.0pt] Examination 1
[12.0pt] 150
[12.0pt] Examination 2
200
[12.0pt] Examination 3
[12.0pt] 250
[12.0pt] Homework (5)
[12.0pt] 100
[12.0pt] Project 1
[12.0pt] 100
[12.0pt] Project 2
[12.0pt] 100
[12.0pt] Project 3
[12.0pt] 100
[12.0pt] Total
[12.0pt] 1000
Graduate students will have graduate-level expectations and requirements for the three
projects.
A = 900 points or more
B = 800 – 899 points
C = 700 – 799 points
D = 600 – 699 points
F = 599 points or less
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
No late work will be accepted. Please abide by all the deadlines. Exceptions can be made in
genuine circumstances only. Please refer to Student Rule 7 in its entirety for information about
[12.0pt] late work, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.  Work submitted
[12.0pt] by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not considered late work and
[12.0pt] is exempted from the late work policy. (reference  Student Rule 7 )
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Course Topics By Week
Week #
[11.0pt bold] Topic
[11.0pt bold] Assignments
1
Overview / Applied Cryptography Components
HW 1 due
2
Symmetric Key Cryptography
HW 2 due
3
Stream Ciphers and PKI
HW 3 due
4
Authentication
Project 1 Due
5
Software Security
Exam 1
6
Malware Analysis
HW 4 due
7
Kernel Rootkits
HW 5 due
8
Advanced Persistent Threats (APTs)
9
Web Security
Project 2 due
10
Network Defense
Exam 2
11
Vulnerability Analysis
12
Cyber Threat Hunting
Project 3 due
13
Applied AI in Attack & Defense
14
Security Architecture
15
End of course review
Exam 3
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Writing:  Use of AI tools, including ChatGPT, is permitted in this course for students who wish
to use them. To adhere to our scholarly values, students must
cite any AI-generated material that informed their work (this includes in-text citations and/or
use of quotations, and in your reference list). Using an AI tool to generate content without
proper attribution qualifies as academic dishonesty. See
[11.0pt bold] https://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/qanda/data/faq/topics/Documentation/faq0422.html
for information how to properly cite AI tools.
(adapted from University of Massachusetts Amherst,
https://cte.tamu.edu/getmedia/1d5e4ef6-97f1-4065-987f-3c9dfecbb7bd/TAMU-CTE_GenAI-
SyllabusStatementConsiderations.pdf )
Computer Code . In principle you may submit AI-generated code, or code that is based on or
derived from AI-generated code, as long as this use is properly documented in the comments:
you need to include the prompt and the significant parts of the response. AI tools may help
you avoid syntax errors, but there is no guarantee that the generated code is correct. It is your
responsibility to identify errors in program logic through comprehensive, documented testing.
Moreover, generated code, even if syntactically correct, may have significant scope for
improvement, in particular regarding separation of concerns and avoiding repetitions. The
submission itself must meet our standards of attribution and validation.
(from Boris Steipe (2023) “Syllabus Resources”. The Sentient Syllabus Project
http://sentientsyllabus.org  .)
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
Galveston Students:
Technology Services - Help Desk
[10.5pt] E-mail:  Helpdesk@tamug.edu
[10.5pt] Phone: 409-740-4714
[10.5pt] Location: Bldg 3007 (CLB), Rm 113
[10.5pt] Hours: Monday - Friday 7:30am to 6:00pm
[10.5pt bold] Canvas LMS Technical Support
[10.5pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[10.5pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[10.5pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[10.5pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
[10.5pt] navigation menu.
[10.5pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] Learning Resources
Computer Security: Art and Science , 2 nd  edition, by Matt Bishop. Available for
purchase,
Handbook of Applied Cryptography , by Alfred J. Menezes, Paul C. van Oorschot
and Scott A. Vanstone. Freely available online  https://cacr.uwaterloo.ca/hac/
[11.0pt bold] Computer Security and the Internet: Tools and Jewels from Malware to Bitcoin,  Second
Edition by Paul C. van Oorschot. Springer, 2021. Freely available
online  https://people.scs.carleton.ca/~paulv/toolsjewels.html
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student responsibility.
Students are expected to attend class and to complete all assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about excused absences,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
There is no penalty for failing to attend class. The student will be responsible for all the
material presented during missed lectures. Missing class does not excuse a student from
turning in assignments on their due date. Early turn-ins are acceptable. A student who
expects to be absent from class during an exam should notify the instructor well prior to the
absence and ensure that the absence is meets university criteria for an excused absence.
Unexcused absences during a scheduled exam will result in a grade of zero for the exam.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.