<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 320 Syllabus
Section 500 (54734)
Principles of Data Science
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 3:55PM
End Time: 5:10PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 350
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Ricardo Gutierrez-Osuna
Email:  rgutier@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 309
Phone:  979-845-2942
Office Hours
By appointment
Preferred Contact Method
csce-320-rgo@tamu.edu
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Principles of Data Science. (3-0). Credit 3. Theoretical foundations, algorithms and
methods of deriving valuable insights from data; includes foundations in managing
and analyzing data at scale, e.g. big data; data mining techniques and algorithms;
exploratory data analysis; statistical methods and models; data visualization.
Prerequisites: STAT 211 or ECEN 303; STAT 212 or CSCE 222; MATH 304. Cross-
listed with STAT 335.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  STAT 211 or ECEN 303; STAT 212 or
CSCE 222/ECEN 222; MATH 304. Cross Listing: STAT 335/CSCE 320.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
[12.0pt] Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
[12.0pt] Collect data from the web, manipulate and process large datasets, and
[12.0pt] conduct exploratory data analysis.
[12.0pt] Apply and interpret basic exploratory statistical techniques including
[12.0pt] cluster analysis and dimensionality reduction.
[12.0pt] Apply and interpret linear models to a variety of dataset types.
[12.0pt] Define and explain the key concepts and models relevant to data
[12.0pt] science, including data cleaning and integration, data-intensive
[12.0pt] distributed computing, data mining algorithms, and data visualization.
[12.0pt] Design, implement, and evaluate the core algorithms underlying an
[12.0pt] end-to-end data science workflow, including the experimental design,
[12.0pt] data collection, mining, analysis, and presentation of information
[12.0pt] derived from large datasets.
[12.0pt] Apply "best practices" in data science, including facility with modern
[12.0pt] tools.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
An Introduction to Statistical Learning: with Applications in Python
Subtitle:  (Springer Texts in Statistics)
ISBN:  978-3031387470
Authors:  Gareth James, Daniela Witten, Trevor Hastie, Robert Tibshirani and
Jonathan Taylor
Publisher:  Springer
Publication Date:  June 30, 2023
Edition:  2nd
URL for Resource:  https://www.statlearning.com/
[16.0pt] Additional Instructional Materials
This Material is: Optional
Data Science from Scratch
Subtitle:  First Principles with Python
ISBN:  978-1492041139
Authors:  Joel Grus
Publisher:  O'Reilly Media
Publication Date:  June 11, 2019
Edition:  2nd
This Material is: Optional
Doing Data Science
Subtitle:  Straight Talk from the Frontline
ISBN:  978-1449358655
Authors:  Cathy O'Neil and Rachel Schutt
Publisher:  O'Reilly Media
Publication Date:  December 3, 2013
Edition:  1st
This Material is: Optional
Numsense! Data Science for the Layman
Subtitle:  No Math Added
ISBN:  978-9811127007
Authors:  Annalyn Ng and Kenneth Soo
Publisher:  N/A
Publication Date:  March 24, 2017
Edition:  1st
This Material is: Optional
Introduction to Machine Learning with Python
Subtitle:  A Guide for Data Scientists
ISBN:  978-1449369415
Authors:  Andreas C. Müller and Sarah Guido
Publisher:  O'Reilly Media
Publication Date:  November 15, 2016
Edition:  1st
This Material is: Optional
Learning From Data
ISBN:  978-1600490064
Authors:  Yaser S. Abu-Mostafa and Malik Magdon-Ismail and Hsuan-Tien Lin
Publisher:  AMLBook
Publication Date:  January 1, 2012
Edition:  January 1, 2012
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[12.0pt] Your final grade will be based on completion of the following requirements,
[12.0pt] following the grading scale shown in Table 1.
[12.0pt bold] 1.  Weekly in-class quizzes.  Quiz will be available at the start of the first
[12.0pt bold] class of each week. Your overall quiz grade ( QG ) will be the statistical
[12.0pt] mean of the top 75% of the individual quiz grades, i.e., the lowest 25%
[12.0pt] of your quiz grades do not count, regardless of whether you completed
[12.0pt] them or not. This gives you a bit of flexibility: a few low quiz grades may
[12.0pt] not affect your grade, and you may miss a few unexcused quizzes (e.g.,
[12.0pt] you arrived late to class, your battery died, connection issues).
[12.0pt] Missed quizzes with an approved excused absence (see  Excused
[12.0pt] absences ) will not be counted towards the total. For example, if
[12.0pt] we have 17 quizzes during the semester, and you had 3 approved
[12.0pt] excused absences (e.g., documented illness), your grade will be
[12.0pt] based on the remaining 14 quizzes following the procedure
[12.0pt] discussed above.
[12.0pt] Missed quizzes without an approved excused absence (see
[12.0pt] Excused   absences ) will be graded as a zero and will be counted
[12.0pt] towards the total.
[12.0pt] Occasionally, you will be asked to complete a pop quiz about
[12.0pt] contents covered in class since the previous quiz. This
[12.0pt] encourages students to take notes during the lecture, pay
[12.0pt] attention and participate in discussions. Pop quizzes will be
[12.0pt] treated as regular weekly quizzes when computing the overall
[12.0pt] quiz grade.
[12.0pt] Please bring your Aggie ID card to take quizzes or participate on
[12.0pt] any class activity. We do not accept any other form of
[12.0pt] identification.
[12.0pt bold] 2.  Homework assignments.  There will be 4 homework assignments
[12.0pt] throughout the semester, roughly every 2-3 weeks. Homework
[12.0pt] assignments must be completed individually. To give you some degree
[12.0pt bold] of fault tolerance, your overall homework grade ( HG ) will be the
[12.0pt] weighted average of the four grades: 40% of the highest grade, 30% of
[12.0pt] the second highest grade, 20% of the third highest grade and 10% of
[12.0pt] the lowest grade. For example, if you score 50 on HW1, 90 on HW2, 70
[12.0pt] on HW3 and 100 on HW4, your homework grade is 86 (0.1 50 + 0.3 90
[12.0pt] + 0.2 70 + 0.4 100), which is higher than the unweighted mean of 77.5.
[12.0pt] Late submissions: Submissions received within 24 hours after the
[12.0pt] Canvas deadline will receive an automatic penalty of 10 points.
[12.0pt] Submissions received after this period will not be considered and
[12.0pt] will be graded as a zero.
[12.0pt] Code: homework submissions must include (1) a well-written
[12.0pt] report following the submission guidelines in the assignment, and
[12.0pt] (2) code that is ready to be executed. Submissions without code
[12.0pt] or without the report will be graded as a zero. If your code does
[12.0pt] not run (for whatever reason), you will receive an automatic
[12.0pt] penalty of 10 points but will have one opportunity to make minor
[12.0pt] corrections to the code by requesting an appointment with the TA.
[12.0pt] Review period: Once homework grades are posted on Canvas,
[12.0pt] students have 24 hours to request a review of the grades via the
[12.0pt] official course email address, with a clear explanation of the
[12.0pt] request (i.e., no fishing, please). Grade revisions will NOT be
[12.0pt] considered after this period.
[12.0pt bold] 3.  Classroom etiquette.  Classroom etiquette will follow the guidelines of
[12.0pt] Library Use & Conduct , including: no talking, no cell phone use, and
[12.0pt] silencing of all electronic devices. Strictly prohibited is the use of (1) cell
[12.0pt] phones, unless there is an emergency, and (2) audio devices (e.g., ear
[12.0pt] buds, headphones), unless there are accommodation requests (e.g.,
[12.0pt] hearing aids). Personal computers (e.g., laptops, tablets) should always
[12.0pt] remain closed unless when used for class activities (e.g., taking notes,
[12.0pt bold] quizzes).  Each individual violation of classroom etiquette   will result
[12.0pt bold] in a  1-point  Etiquette Penalty (EP)   on the FINAL course grade .
[12.0pt bold] Your total points ( TP ) will be the weighted average of  QG  and  HG , weighted
[12.0pt] in favor of the lowest of the two grades, minus penalty points due to violations
[12.0pt] of classroom etiquette:
Equation 1
[12.0pt] TP=0.60×min(QC,HG)+0.40 ×max(QC,HG)-sum(EP)
[12.0pt bold] For example, a student receives a quiz grade of QG=60    and a homework
[12.0pt] grade
[12.0pt] of
[12.0pt] HG=100
[12.0pt] and
[12.0pt] three
[12.0pt] EPs.
[12.0pt] Thus,
[12.0pt] their
[12.0pt] total
[12.0pt] points    TP=0.60×min⁡(60,100)+0.40×max⁡(60,100)-3=0.60×60+0.40×100-3=73
[12.0pt bold] or a C letter grade according to  Table 1  below.
[12.0pt] Table 1. Grading scale. Total
[12.0pt] points are calculated as shown
[12.0pt] in eq. (1)
[12.0pt bold] Total points
[12.0pt bold] Letter grade
[12.0pt] 90
[12.0pt] A
[12.0pt] 80
[12.0pt] B
[12.0pt] 70
[12.0pt] C
[12.0pt] 60
[12.0pt] D
[12.0pt] Otherwise
[12.0pt] F
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[12.0pt] Please refer to late submission policy under Homework assignments above.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[12.0pt] A tentative schedule for the course, including assignments and due dates for
[12.0pt] submission of course materials is available as a  spreadsheet . Please refer to
[12.0pt] it regularly as it may change during the semester based on eventualities.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[12.0pt] If you would like to request an excused absence, please follow these steps:
[12.0pt] 1. Go to  Student Rule 7  to determine if your situation is covered, then
[12.0pt] 2. Send an email to  csce-320-rgo@tamu.edu  with:
[12.0pt] A description of your situation, and
[12.0pt] Which provision within  Student Rule 7  applies
[12.0pt] Supporting documentation (doctor's note, cover letter, etc.)
[12.0pt] 3. Your request will be reviewed, and you will be notified of its
[12.0pt] approval/rejection via email
[12.0pt bold] Timeline for submitting excused absences : Per  Student Rule 7 , you must
[12.0pt] make the request prior to the day of absence. If this is not possible, you must
[12.0pt] provide notification by the end of the second business day after the last date
[12.0pt] of the absence, including an explanation of why advance notice could not be
[12.0pt] sent. Requests for excused absences that do not meet these guidelines will
[12.0pt] not be considered.
[12.0pt bold] PLAGLIARISM AND FABRICATION
[12.0pt] Homework reports containing plagiarized content (including self-plagiarism or
[12.0pt] AI-generated) will be submitted to the Aggie Honors Office, with the
[12.0pt bold] recommendation that the student receives an  F*  for the course. Please
[12.0pt] review the TAMU guidelines for  Academic Integrity and Plagiarism .
[12.0pt] Occasionally, we find evidence of plagiarism after the homework reports have
[12.0pt] been graded. For example, a prior report may be flagged when a new
[12.0pt] detector for AI-generated materials becomes available. For these reasons,
[12.0pt] you should treat your homework grades as provisional. Any prior submission
[12.0pt] that is later found to constitute a violation will be submitted to the Aggie
[12.0pt] Honors Office, with the same recommendation that the student receives an
[12.0pt bold] F* .
[12.0pt] Any information (e.g., a doctor’s note for an excused absences) that is found
[12.0pt] to have been fabricated, falsified and/or misused will be submitted to the
[12.0pt bold] Aggie Honors Office with the recommendation the student receives an  F*  for
[12.0pt] the course.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[12.0pt] The use of AI is strictly prohibited.  Please refer to Additional Course
[12.0pt] Information above.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
Galveston Students:
Technology Services - Help Desk
[10.5pt] E-mail:  Helpdesk@tamug.edu
[10.5pt] Phone: 409-740-4714
[10.5pt] Location: Bldg 3007 (CLB), Rm 113
[10.5pt] Hours: Monday - Friday 7:30am to 6:00pm
[10.5pt bold] Canvas LMS Technical Support
[10.5pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[10.5pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[10.5pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[10.5pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
[10.5pt] navigation menu.
[10.5pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] Learning Resources
Tutorials on DataCamp
Data structures ( link )
Pandas ( link )
Matplotlib ( link )
Numpy arrays ( link )
Scikit-learn ( link )
Programming resources :
Python Numpy TutorialLinks to an external site. : basics of Python, Numpy,
Scipy, and Matplotlib
Scikit-learn Crash CourseLinks to an external site. : building various machine-
learning models with Sklean
Pandas tutorialLinks to an external site. : basics of reading CSV files using
Pandas and manipulating dataframes
Hypothesis testing in PythonLinks to an external site. : hypothesis testing
using Scipy, with accompanying Kaggle  notebook
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.