<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 483 Syllabus
Section 932 (37080)
Computer Systems Design
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 3:00PM
End Time: 3:25PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  EABA 121
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 3:30PM
End Time: 6:00PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  EABA 121
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Aakash Tyagi
Email:  tyagi@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR-207
Phone:  979-845-5480
Office Hours
Book time with Tyagi, Aakash: 1o1 with Aakash Tyagi
Preferred Contact Method
[13.0pt] Use the above link (Wed, Fri)
Webpage:  https://engineering.tamu.edu/cse/profiles/tyagi-aakash.html
Biography
[13.0pt] Aakash Tyagi has a PhD in Computer Engineering in the field of
[13.0pt] Semiconductor Yield Modeling and Design for Manufacturability. He
[13.0pt] has over two decades of industry experience at Intel Corporation in
[13.0pt] end-to-end CPU development including front-end logic design,
[13.0pt] functional verification, physical design, circuit design, and silicon debug
[13.0pt] and validation. Since 2014, he has been with Texas A&M University
[13.0pt] Department of Computer Science and Engineering as a Professor of
[13.0pt] Practice where he teaches courses in Computer Organization, Systems
[13.0pt] Programming, and Software Testing and leads research and workforce
[13.0pt] development activities in hardware verification.
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Computer Systems Design. (1-6). Credit 3. Engineering design; working as a design-
team member, conceptual design methodology, design evaluations, total project
planning and management techniques, design optimization, systems manufacturing
costs considerations; emphasis placed upon students' activities as design
professionals. Prerequisites: Grade of C or better in CSCE 315 or CSCE 331, and
CSCE 462 or ECEN 449, and ECEN 325; senior classification.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
CSCE 483 is a project-oriented course aimed at developing system integration skills.
Students work in groups of 4-6 people to complete a significant engineering design
project. Every project requires complete implementation, documentation and
demonstration of a hardware/software system, which has to involve a hardware
component. The focus is not only on the final product but also on design
methodology, management process and teamwork.
Each team is required to manage its own efforts to complete its project in a timely
manner. Group members are required to keep individual lab notebooks recording
their efforts and their personal impressions of the project. Students are graded
based on both the quality of the group product and their individual contributions.
Every team is required to schedule a weekly meeting with the course instructor and
the TAs, preferably during the official class or lab hours. These meetings must be
attended by every group member. Since the projects will be student managed, the
exact nature and style of these meetings is at the group’s discretion. However, every
member of the group is expected to participate.
At the end of the semester, each group will make a public presentation describing
and demonstrating their work. These presentations are open to the university
community.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 315 or CSCE 331, and
CSCE 462 or ECEN 449, and ECEN 325; senior classification.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to demonstrate:
an ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science, and engineering
an ability to design and conduct experiments, as well as to analyze and
interpret data
an ability to design a system, component, or process to meet desired needs
an ability to function on multi-disciplinary teams
an ability to identify, formulate, and solve engineering problems
an understanding of professional and ethical responsibility
an ability to communicate effectively
an ability to use the techniques, skills, and modern engineering tools
necessary for engineering practice
Moreover, course-specific outcomes are
1. understand and utilize the engineering design method to generate potential
solutions to a specific design challenge;
2. understand the basic of project management including: statements of work, work
break-down structures, critical path identification, distribution of tasks, project
tracking and status reporting; be able to generate status reports;
3. understand professional communication methods and techniques including
formal reports and presentations;
4. clearly communicate ideas, status and test results through written reports;
5. clearly communicate through oral presentations.
6. to rigorously define design requirements for potential solutions.
7. Understand and incorporate engineering standards and multiple realistic
constraints that include most of the following considerations: economic,
environmental, sustainability, manufacturability, ethical, health and safety, social and
political.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
UCRT - University Required Oral Communication
Fulfills a writing/communication requirement for graduation. As a result, the
aggregate score of the written reports must be a passing grade in order to get a
grade in the course.
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
The Five Dysfunctions of a Team
ISBN:  9780470893869
Authors:  Patrick M. Lencioni
Publisher:  John Wiley & Sons
Publication Date:  2010-06-03
This material Is: Recommended
Fundamentals of Engineering Design
Authors:  Barry Hyman
Publisher:  Prentice Hall
Publication Date:  2003
Edition:  2nd edition
This material Is: Recommended
Design for Electrical and Computer Engineers
ISBN:  9781283384681
Authors:  Ralph Michael Ford
Publication Date:  2008-01-01
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
The final grade you will receive in the class will be based on points accumulated
during the semester. Thus, both continued progress (the process) and the quality of
your product (and other deliverables) will determine your grade. Although the bulk
of your grade is based on the performance of your team, individual performance
will also be gauged.
1.  Project Proposal (10%):  These points will be based on the originality, quality
and feasibility of the proposed work, the analysis of alternative solutions, the
consideration of economic and societal aspects, and the project management
approach, as reflected on your written proposal (75%) and oral presentation
(25%). A template for the proposal report and a presentation rubric will be
made available on the course webpage.
2.  Weekly Progress (10%):  This grade will be based on your team’s ability to
maintain the project on schedule. Each team submits a weekly report, which
should be incremental and should specifically address the following:
1. Agenda for the weekly meeting with the instructor and the TA
2. Team’s accomplishments during this period. Accomplishments need to
be measurable, e.g. “did more research on such and such” is not an
accomplishment, it is an activity (and a loosely defined one).
3. Team’s goals for the following week, and
4. Minutes from the previous meeting
5. Weekly progress reports are due at 8AM on the day of the weekly
meeting. Reports are limited to one page and should be submitted
according to the template provided in the course website. The team
leader will be responsible for submitting these reports and leading the
discussion during the weekly meeting. One of the team members,
acting as a scribe, will be responsible for generating the meeting
minutes throughout the semester.
3.  Critical Design Review (10%):  The CDR is a mid-semester evaluation of your
project. The CDR grade will be based on the quality of your design (75%) as
reflected on your oral/poster presentation and written report, and on the
degree to which you have a complete design (25%). A template for the CDR
report and a presentation rubric will be made available on the course
webpage.
4.  Final Communication (10%):  This grade will be based on the quality of the
final presentation (25%), as well as the contents and professional finish of the
documentation (75%). Final reports should have a discussion of constraints
that the team had to satisfy (e.g., cost, time, technology limitations) and of
relevant industry standards used (e.g., coding, interfaces, safety). A template
for the final report and a presentation rubric will be made available on the
course webpage.
5.  Project Grade (20%):  A final grade will be assigned to your project based on
the completion of all the objectives stated in the proposal, as well as on a live
demonstration in front of the class. The complexity of your project and the
size of your team will be factored in.  Due date:  Project demonstrations will
take place the last day of class of the week prior to final presentations. This
earlier deadline ensures that teams have time to (i) thoroughly test and
validate their systems after the demo, and (ii) prepare the final presentation.
6.  Team work (10%):  It is very important to understand that accomplishing the
technical objectives of the project is not sufficient. These accomplishments
should not come at the expense of destroying relationships among team
members. Thus, a grade will be assigned based on the ability of the group to
function as a team. Is there evidence that the group engaged in team building
activities? Were contributions to the project evenly distributed? Were
members equally engaged in discussions during meetings? Was there an
effective division of responsibilities? Note: the work should be done primarily
in the lab and as a group, regardless of whether you can perform your task
assignments individually elsewhere. Being physically present in the same
room encourages collaboration and equal distribution of workload. A regular
work schedule should be included in the proposal, showing the times when
the team will meet in the lab to work on the project (in addition to meeting
times).
7.  Individual Performance (30%):  Points in this category are awarded based
on assessments of your personal contribution to the team efforts:
1.  Notebook (10%):  You are required to maintain an individual design
notebook to collect any information relevant for the project, including
ideas, references, designs, and discussions. Your notebook will be
graded based on:
1. the evidence of engineering design (e.g., sketches, block
diagrams, schematics, pseudo-code, experimental results, formal
derivations),
2. the regularity of your entries during the semester, and
3. the organization of your notebook
2.  Participation (10%):  The instructor and TAs will evaluate your
attendance to meetings, participation in the discussions, and
contributions to the team. Each student is also required to pass a
teamwork quiz with a score of 75 or higher (see tentative schedule);
failure to do so will result in a 5% penalty on the final grade.
3.  Peer Review (10%):  Your performance will be evaluated by each of
your team members throughout the semester. Peer reviews should be
submitted to the TA no later than 8AM of the due date. Late
submissions will NOT be accepted.
NOTE: Grades will not be assigned until all project deliverables have been turned in
(see below), all borrowed items (e.g., keys, books, equipment) have been returned
to their proper location or their owner, and the workstations in the lab have been
thoroughly cleaned up. All team members are required to be present at the time of
the final delivery.
Final deliverables
USB Drive or Online-Shared Drive including the following (please organize
into folders, e.g., Docs, Source, Hardware, Media, References, Freeware, etc.)
It should include a plain text readme file that documents the list of
contents.
Designs: code, schematics, data, data sheets, freeware software tools,
etc.
Reports: proposal, CDR, weekly reports, final report, and ALL
presentations
Audiovisual media: close-up pictures of your system and a high-quality
movie demo of the system working, for posterity (see gallery in the
course webpage for movie samples)
Individual notebooks (in digital form)
Final prototype, as well as any spare parts and supplies
Software install, to be demonstrated on several machines
Evidence of individual design contributions
Final reports should have a discussion of constraints that the team had to satisfy
(e.g., cost, time, technology limitations) and of relevant industry standards used (e.g.,
coding, interfaces, safety).
Document preparation
All major documents (proposal, CDR, and final documentation) should contain a title
page, an outline, as well as clear section and subsection headings, etc. Please use
the templates available in the course website. Please run a spell check before
submitting.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Tentative Calendar
TENTATIVE COURSE CALENDAR
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Date
[11.0pt bold] Classroom Meeting
[11.0pt bold] Activity/Materials Due
1
01/12
Kickoff Lecture
Syllabus and Questionnaire
01/14
Kickoff Lecture
[11.0pt bold] Team formation,  Resume Due
2
01/19
No Class
MLK Jr. Day
01/21
Kickoff Lecture
Brainstorming on Project Idea
3
01/26
Kickoff Lecture
Brainstorming, Project Final
01/28
Kickoff Lecture
Brainstorming, Proposal preparation
4
02/02
Kickoff Lecture
Proposal Preparation
02/04
Kickoff Lecture
[11.0pt bold] Teamwork Quiz, Proposal
[11.0pt bold] preparation
5
02/09
Proposal
Presentation
02/11
[11.0pt bold] Proposal Finalization   Proposal Report, Peer Review 1
6
02/16
Workday
02/18
Weekly meeting
starts
Weekly report
7
02/23
Workday
02/25
Weekly meeting
Weekly report
8
03/02
Workday
03/04
Weekly meeting
Weekly report
TENTATIVE COURSE CALENDAR
9
03/09
No Class
No Class
[11.0pt bold] Spring Break
03/11
10
03/16
CDR Preparation
03/18
CDR Presentation
[11.0pt bold] CDR Report. Peer Review 2
11
03/23
Workday
03/25
Weekly meeting
Weekly report
12
03/30
Workday
04/01
Weekly meeting
Weekly report
13
04/06
Workday
04/08
Weekly meeting
Weekly report
14
04/13
Workday
04/15
Workday
Plan for Project Demonstration
15
04/20
Project Demos
[11.0pt bold] Peer Review 3
04/22
[11.0pt bold] Project Presentation
16
04/27
[11.0pt bold] Project Presentation   Final report, and all deliverables
[16.0pt] AI Statement
According to the Texas A&M University Definitions of Academic Misconduct,
plagiarism is the appropriation of another person's ideas, processes, results or
words without giving appropriate credit (aggiehonor.tamu.edu). You should credit
your use of anyone else's words, graphic images, or ideas using standard citation
styles. Artificial Intelligence (AI) text generators and natural language processing
tools (colloquially, chatbots - such as ChatGPT), audio, computer code, video, and
image generators should not be used for any work for this class without explicit
permission of the instructor and appropriate attribution.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
Galveston Students:
Technology Services - Help Desk
[10.5pt] E-mail:  Helpdesk@tamug.edu
[10.5pt] Phone: 409-740-4714
[10.5pt] Location: Bldg 3007 (CLB), Rm 113
[10.5pt] Hours: Monday - Friday 7:30am to 6:00pm
[10.5pt bold] Canvas LMS Technical Support
[10.5pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[10.5pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[10.5pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[10.5pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
[10.5pt] navigation menu.
[10.5pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
Not attending weekly meetings harms the other members of your group and makes
it much more difficult for the instructor to assess your contributions to the group
effort. Therefore, attendance, punctuality and active participation in the weekly
meetings are required. Failure to attend a meeting or late arrivals (more than 10
minutes late) will be reflected in your individual grade. Emergencies, however, do
happen. Lateness or absence can be excused if there is a valid reason. Illness,
death in the family, inclement weather or accidents for commuters, etc., are valid
reasons. Oversleeping, a term paper due, an exam to cram for, etc., are not valid
reasons. Ultimately, the instructor reserves the right to determine what constitutes
a “valid reason” on a case-by-case basis. If you know you are going to be late or miss
a class, please let the instructor and your teammates know, so that they may plan
for your absence and make the best use of their time.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.