<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 313 Syllabus
Section 500 (42151)
Introduction to Computer Systems
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MWF
Start Time: 1:50PM
End Time: 2:40PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  HRBB 124
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 08:25AM
End Time: 09:15AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 582
Credit Hours:  4
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Sandeep Kumar
Email:  sandeep.kumar@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 105
Phone:  979-458-6816
Office Hours
TBD
Preferred Contact Method
Email
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Introduction to Computer Systems. (3-2). Credit 4. Introduction to system support
for application programs, both on single node and over network including OS
application interface, inter-process communication, introduction to system and
network programming, and simple computer security concepts; hands-on lab
assignments. Prerequisite: CSCE 221 with a grade of C or better; grade of C or
better in CSCE 312 or concurrent enrollment in CSCE 350 or ECEN 350.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  CSCE 221 with a grade of C or better; grade of C or
better in CSCE 312 or concurrent enrollment in CSCE 350/ECEN 350 or
ECEN 350/CSCE 350.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
By the end of the semester, students will be able to utilize basic operating-system
services and C/C++ system APIs, create multi-threaded solutions, implement proper
synchronization, and build applications with efficient file I/O and memory
management.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
System Programming in Linux
ISBN:  9781718503571
Authors:  Stewart Weiss
Publisher:  No Starch Press
Publication Date:  2025-10-14
This material Is: Recommended
Operating Systems
ISBN:  9781985086593
Authors:  Remzi H. Arpaci-Dusseau, Andrea C. Arpaci-
Dusseau
Publisher:  Createspace Independent Publishing
Platform
Publication Date:  2018-09-01
This material Is: Recommended
Advanced Programming in the UNIX Environment
ISBN:  0321637739
Authors:  W. Richard Stevens and Stephen A. Rago
Edition:  3rd
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Your grade in the class will be based on the following activities spread throughout
the semester.
Labs & Programming Assignments –  50% .
Homeworks –  10%.
[11.0pt bold] In-class graded assignments  –  10%.
Three midterms –  30% . Either no final exam, or final exam in lieu of the third
midterm!
Your letter grade in the class will be based on the following cutoffs where  x  is your
cumulative score.
A: x  ≥  90.
B: 80  ≤  x < 90.
C: 70  ≤  x < 80.
D: 60  ≤  x < 70.
F: x < 60.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late assignments will not be accepted without a reason.
Assignments will usually be due by 11:59 PM on the due date.  To
accommodate last minute submissions, we'll deduct 1% penalty per late
hour on programming assignments . I.e., we'll grade the assignment as if it
was submitted on time, then deduct for late time. In most cases you'll submit
your assignments on Gradescope but if because of some technical hitch we
ask you to mail your assignment to us, you must keep the mail in your
Sent/Outbox folder, so you can later show that you mailed us the assignment
on time. Please discuss unusual circumstances in advance with the TA's when
possible.
Work submitted as makeup work for an excused absence is not considered
late work and is exempted from the late work policy (Student Rule 7).
Email submissions will not be accepted in general. However, you should keep
a copy (in your mail Sent/Outbox folder) of all relevant communication to us
in case of disputes.
If you have difficulty finishing an assignment, contact the instructor/TA before
the deadline.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[12.9pt] § Week 1, Jan 12. First week of class
Labs/Assignments:
Linux environment setup on GCP. Wait for TA instructions. Read lab0 for
details.
GDB.
Reading:
Git from Scratch . We have a site license for LinkedIn learning at TAMU and
you should be able to login using your Tamu email.
Skim through the x86-64 ISA on  Prof. Eddie Kohler's Assembly Page .
Chapter 3  of Dive into Systems.
Class Topics and Slides:
Git from Scratch . We have a site license for LinkedIn learning at TAMU and
you should be able to login using your Tamu email.
Skim through the x86-64 ISA on  Prof. Eddie Kohler's Assembly Page .
Chapter 3  of Dive into Systems.
[12.9pt] § Week 2, Jan 19. MLK holiday on monday.
Labs/Assignments:
GDB continued
Time permitting: Git Overview.
Lab 1 on GDB.
Reading:
Mechanism: Limited Direct Execution —Chapter 6 of OSSTEP.
Class Topics and Slides:
No CSCE313_03.pdf .
CSCE313_02.pdf —Architectural Support for OS.
CSCE313_04.pdf —Introduction to Processes.
[12.9pt] § Week 3, Jan 26. Attendance certification due.
Reading:
Sections 7.1 to 7.6 in APUE.
A fork() in the road . Skim through the paper to get the gist of why the authors
don't like the fork system call.
Class Topics and Slides:
Sections 7.1 to 7.6 in APUE.
A fork() in the road . Skim through the paper to get the gist of why the authors
don't like the fork system call.
[12.9pt] § Week 4, Feb 2.
Labs/Assignments:
x86_64 ISA overview.
Lab exercise 2. This one is  /bin/ls -l | tr a-z A-Z
For fun or profit, redo the assignment using  posix_spawn()  instead of  fork() .
Reading:
Chapter 7  of Dive into Systems.
x86-64 ISA.  Prof. Eddie Kohler's Assembly Page
The x86-64 chapter of the  CS107 Course Reader .
Class Topics and Slides:
Assembly Language on x86-64.
CSCE313_0101.pdf .
[12.9pt] § Week 5, Feb 9.
Labs/Assignments: PA #1. TBD.
Readings: Class Topics and Slides: Sections 5.1, 5.2, 5.3 in  OSSTEP .
Class Topics and Slides:
CSCE313_06.pdf . Process API - I
CSCE313_07.pdf . Process API - II
[12.9pt] § Week 6, Feb 16. Tentative date for midterm-I Feb 18.
Labs/Assignments: Lab 3. User-space thread library.
Reading: Sections 39.1, 39.6 in  OSSTEP .
Class Topics and Slides:
CSCE313_09.pdf . Unix File I/O.
CSCE313_10.pdf . UNIX I/O file descriptors, redirection and standard I/O
[12.9pt] § Week 7, Feb 23.
Labs/Assignments: PA #2
Reading: Sections 40.1, 40.6 in  OSSTEP .
Class Topics and Slides:  CSCE313_11_1.pdf . File Systems.
[12.9pt] § Week 8, Mar 2. Mid-semester grades are due at noon on Mar 2.
Labs/Assignments: Lab 4. Signals.
Reading: Class evaluation at the half-way mark. Signals are described in Chapter 10
of APUE, Pages 313-322. The  sigaction  function is described in APUE pages 349-
354.
Class Topics and Slides:  CSCE313_12.pdf —Signals
[12.9pt] § Week 9, Mar 9. Spring Break.
[12.9pt] § Week 10, Mar 16. Tentative date for midterm-II: Mar 18
Labs/Assignments: Lab 5.
Reading:
OSSTEP-Concurrency: An Introduction .
OSSTEP-Thread API .
Class Topics and Slides:
CSCE313_11_2.pdf —File systems II.
CSCE313_14.pdf —Concurrency and threads
[12.9pt] § Week 11, Mar 23.
Labs/Assignments:
Lab 6. Strace.
PA #3. Threadpools?
Written Homework.
Reading:
Condition Variables
Semaphores
Class Topics and Slides:
CSCE313_15.pdf —Synchronization
CSCE313_16.pdf —Semaphores
[12.9pt] § Week 12, Mar 30. Fri Apr 3 is Reading day.
Class Topics and Slides:  CSCE313_18.pdf —Networking.
[12.9pt] § Week 13, Apr 6.
Reading:
Network IPC: Sockets. This is Sections 16.1-16.4 of APUE.
Beej's Guide to Network Programming —Sections 3.3, 5, 9.
Class Topics and Slides:
CSCE313_19.pdf —Routers, Switches, Packets, and Frames
CSCE313_20.pdf —Network Programming Socket API
[12.9pt] § Week 14, Apr 13.
Class Topics and Slides:
CSCE313_21.pdf —Introduction to computer security
CSCE313_22.pdf —Network security: the data link layer
[12.9pt] § Week 15, Apr 20.
Class Topics and Slides: TBD
[12.9pt] § Week 16, Apr 27. Tue Apr 28 last day of classes.
Class Topics and Slides: TBD
[16.0pt] AI Statement
I'm fine if you use tools such as ChatGPT, Gemini, Claude etc. to understand the
material in the class, and even to help with your homeworks. But  blind copying
and pasting from these tools is not permitted . You must eventually write the
solution yourself, and code your labs and programming assignments yourself. Also
remember that you'll have to take all exams without these tools, and a weaker
understanding resulting from constant use of these tools will reflect in your exam
performance.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
Galveston Students:
Technology Services - Help Desk
[10.5pt] E-mail:  Helpdesk@tamug.edu
[10.5pt] Phone: 409-740-4714
[10.5pt] Location: Bldg 3007 (CLB), Rm 113
[10.5pt] Hours: Monday - Friday 7:30am to 6:00pm
[10.5pt bold] Canvas LMS Technical Support
[10.5pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[10.5pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[10.5pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[10.5pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
[10.5pt] navigation menu.
[10.5pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
Attendance during lectures is not mandatory . If you are receiving federal
financial assistance, the university uses your “participation” as a measure of meeting
the requirements of the assistance. Physical attendance is one criterion to
determine participation. You should be ok if you're turning in labs and
programming assignments, taking quizzes and exams etc. However, I will take
attendance as an indication of your “participation” and report it to the university
when asked. I may take pictures of the classroom to verify attendance.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.