<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 752 Syllabus
Section 600 (58432)
Robotics and Spatial Intelligence
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 4:10PM
End Time: 5:25PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  HRBB 113
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Jason O'Kane
Email:  jokane@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 318
Phone:  jokane@tamu.edu
Office Hours
Tuesdays, 12pm-1pm or by appointment
Preferred Contact Method
Email is the recommended method for contacting me.
Messages in the Canvas messaging system, including comments attached to
assignments, are not likely to be received in a timely manner.
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Robotics and Spatial Intelligence. (3-0). Credit 3. The algorithmic foundation of
robotics including spatial representations, frame transformation and mapping,
forward kinematics, inverse kinematics, mobile robots wheel kinematics, motion
planning, sensors, camera calibration, stereo vision, simultaneous localization and
mapping and navigation. Prerequisites: Graduate classification or approval of
instructor.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
This is a course about what happens when algorithms interact with the physical
world.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
The only formal prerequisite is to hold graduate standing.
Students will be expected to exhibit mature mathematical ability,  mastery of
fundamental algorithms and data structures, and strong programming skills, as
appropriate for an upper-level course in computer science.
Students will be expected to describe and evaluate technical concepts correctly
using precise written English.
Major projects will require the use of the Robot Operating System (ROS) software
system, which is best supported within the Ubuntu Linux operating system. The
recommended programming language is Python.  Demonstrations and examples
will be based on this Ubuntu+ROS+Python environment. You are welcome to
identify and utilize other suitable operating systems or languages for your projects,
provided that doing so does not trivialize the assignment. However, the instructor
and TA  will not be able to provide assistance with this.  Note that commonly
attempted alternatives to Linux, including Docker, Windows Subsystem for Linux,
VirtualBox, and VMWare have proven troublesome to many students in the past.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Create algorithms and software for both mobile robots and manipulators.
Analyze different sensors for different robot tasks.
Evaluate and create navigation and motion planning algorithms.
Apply existing approaches to formulate a comprehensive solution.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Computational Principles of Mobile Robotics
Authors:  Gregory Dudek and Michael Jenkin
Publisher:  Cambridge University Press
Publication Date:  2024
Edition:  Third
This material Is: Recommended
Principles of Robot Motion: Theory, Algorithms and Implementations
Authors:  Howie Choset, Kevin M. Lynch, Seth Hutchinson, George Kantor, Wolfram
Burgard, Lydia E. Kavraki, and Sebastian Thrun
Publisher:  MIT Press
Publication Date:  2005
This material Is: Recommended
Planning Algorithms
Authors:  Steven M. LaValle
Publisher:  Cambridge University Press
Publication Date:  2006
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Your learning in this course will be evaluated based on the following elements:
Homework  assignments throughout the semester. These assignments will
be similar in format to exam questions. Homework grading will be based on
the standard of a reasonable good faith attempt to solve each part of the
assignment. Therefore, you should complete the assignments but should not
conclude that receiving full credit for the homework indicates that your
answers were fully correct. (8%)
Projects  using ROS. There will be approximately six of these assignments,
some of which will be completed individually and others in small groups. One
of these projects will be assigned only to students in CSCE 752 and not to the
students in the sister course CSCE 452.  (34%)
A  presentation  of current research in robotics. (10%)
Tests , including two mid-term exams and final exam. (48%)
Letter grade thresholds
Thresholds for determining final grades appear below.
A:  ≥ 90%
B:  ≥ 80%
C:  ≥ 70%
D:  ≥  60%
F: < 60%
The instructor reserves the right to adjust these thresholds downward, but
promises not to adjust them upward.
Gradebook access
Grades will be recorded via Canvas. It is your responsibility to verify that grades are
correctly recorded on this site.
Corrections and regrades
My goal is to ensure that all of the grading for this course is fair and correct. If you
believe there's been a mistake in grading, please bring it to the attention of the
instructor within one week after the scores are posted. Regrade requests after one
week will be politely declined.
Note on grades as computed by Canvas
Efforts have been made to ensure that Canvas is configured to calculate grades
correctly, accounting for weights of various types of assignments and other details
of the grading policy. Nevertheless, if a discrepancy is discovered between Canvas-
computed grades and the state course policies, the course policies in this syllabus
will govern assignment of final grades.
Deviations from the grading policy
I assume that every student takes the class intending to succeed, and I share that
goal. However, in the interest of fairness and consistency, requests for grade
increases that are inconsistent with the stated grading scale will be politely
declined. Here is an incomplete list of hypothetical requests from students that are
not sufficient reasons to deviate from the stated grading scale:
Getting a grade lower than _____ makes me feel sad.
I am about to graduate.
I am really close to getting a _____.
I am willing to do extra work.
If my grade is less than _____, I won't be able to graduate.
I have a good GPA so far.
I have been away from school for a few years.
I have never failed a class before.
I have never taken a course in this area before.
I have too many other responsibilities.
I have worked extremely hard in the course.
I need a GPA of at least _____ to get the internship I want.
It doesn't hurt to ask!
I've never gotten a grade as low as !blank before.
I want to get into graduate school.
My parents will be disappointed in me.
The course is too hard for me.
I worked hard to finish the semester strong.
Important reminder
Keep in mind that I am grading your work, not you as a person.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Homework  assignments will not be accepted late.  Solutions will be posted
and discussed very shortly after the deadline.
Projects  and the  presentation  may submitted late, subject to a deduction of
0.0139% of the total available points for each minute late. This means, for
example, that one day after the deadline, the maximum possible score is
80%; three days after the deadline, the maximum possible score is 40%; after
approximately five days beyond the deadline, it will be impossible to earn any
credit for a project.
Tests  missed without an approved excused absence will be awarded a score
of zero.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
The schedule for the course is summarized below.
Weeks 1-4: introduction, robot hardware, wheeled systems, navigation
Test 1: February 16
Weeks 6-10: control, localization, mapping, SLAM
Test 2: March 25
Weeks 11-15: motion planning, multiple robots, planning over information
spaces, advanced topics
Final Exam: May 1
Homework assignments will be due before the start of most lectures.  Projects will
be due approximately every two weeks.  Students should plan their time, including
potential plans to depart from College Station after the semester, in accordance
with this schedule.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
Attendance
You are expected to attend and participate in each lecture, and I will make every
effort to ensure that class attendance is worth your time.
Mobile devices
Please silence any mobile devices before coming to class. If your phone rings in
class, I reserve the right to answer it for you and take a message. Likewise, if my
phone rings during class time, I will allow a student to answer it.
Fast Track credit
Some undergraduate students are participating in the College of Engineering's Fast
Track program, which essentially allows graduate-level courses to count toward
bachelor's and master's degrees.  Only students enrolled in CSCE 752 can receive
Fast Track credit for this course. Please ensure that you are enrolled in the correct
course. University rules prohibit switching between CSCE452 and CSCE752 after the
add/drop period, despite the similarity between the two courses.
Academic integrity
Academic misconduct undermines the educational mission of the course and is
incompatible with each of our Aggie Core Values of Respect, Excellence, Leadership,
Loyalty, Integrity, and Selfless Service. Therefore, you are expected to practice the
highest possible standards of academic integrity.  All incidents of academic
misconduct will be reported to the Aggie Honor System Office (ASHO). The standard
academic penalty for academic misconduct is an F* grade for the course. Other
penalties may be imposed within the Honor Code process.  This policy includes all
forms of academic misrepresentation, including cheating; fabrication; multiple
submissions; plagiarism; complicity; abuse and misuse of access; unauthorized
access; and violation of college, program, departmental or course rules.
It is not acceptable in this course to submit work completed by anyone else as your
own, to make your own work available to anyone else, nor to distribute or post the
materials for the course in any venue. Any use of words, images, code, or ideas of
others must be accompanied by complete and accurate citations. Use of the words,
images, code or ideas of others without complete and accurate citation is
plagiarism, which is considered a form of academic misconduct. The expectation is
that the words, images, code, and ideas you submit will be your own original work,
with the exception of occasional correctly cited quotations in support of your own
ideas.
Unless an assignment includes instructions to the contrary, it is permissible to
consult Internet resources to complete the assignments in this class, provided that
you give adequate citations of every resource you consult. This policy includes both
human-generated and AI-generated material. It is not permissible to copy code or
anything else directly from the web. Representing the work of others as your own is
never acceptable.
Submission of identical or substantially identical work will be considered strong
evidence that violations of academic integrity by all involved have occurred. This
means, among other things, that posting project code in any publicly-viewable
venue (for example, a public GitHub repository) is strongly discouraged. If others
locate and utilize your code, you will be held responsible for providing it.
Additional details about the university's policies on academic misconduct appear
below.
Policy changes
Changes to the syllabus at the instructor's reasonable discretion, including changes
to the evaluation and grading mechanisms, are possible but unlikely. Any such
changes will be announced.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Submitting work with a significant percentage of AI-generated content, unless
otherwise permitted, can be considered academic misconduct under Texas A&M
University Student Rule 20. Students must therefore cite the use of Generative AI
tools and document what they have contributed to an assignment.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.