<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Industrial and Systems Engineering
[16.0pt] ISEN 460 Syllabus
Section 901 (26588)
Capstone Senior Design
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: W
Start Time: 12:40PM
End Time: 3:50PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ETB 1034
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days:
Start Time: N/A
End Time: N/A
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Scott Miller
Email:  s.miller@tamu.edu
Office Location:  ETB 4074
Phone:  979-845-2795
Office Hours
MWF - 10-11:30am, TR - 1-2pm, or by appointment
Jose Vazquez
Email:  vazquez@tamu.edu
Office Location:  ETB 3030
Phone:  979-574-1714 cell
Office Hours
T - 11:30 AM-12:30 PM; or by appointment
Preferred Contact Method
email or text if urgent
JP Elizondo
Email:  jpe@tamu.edu
Office Location:  ETB 3030
Phone:  210-332-8608 cell
Office Hours
[13.0pt] TWF  - 11:30 am -12:30 pm
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Capstone Senior Design. (1-6). Credit 3. Engineering design including identification
of a problem; development, analysis and evaluation of alternative solutions; and
recommendations for and, where possible, development of systems improvement
tools; application of experience and training to provide a product or solution that
helps company clients; balancing client needs with academic requirements.
Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in ISEN 210, ISEN 330, ISEN 340, ISEN 350, ISEN
355 and ISEN 370; junior or senior classification.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in ISEN 210, ISEN 330, ISEN 340,
ISEN 350, ISEN 355 and ISEN 370; junior or senior classification.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
The focus for this course is the project each team takes on for a client and
enhancing each student’s communication skills. Students in this course are
expected to demonstrate the ABET-based educational outcomes listed below.
1.  an ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by
applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics;
2. an ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet
specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as
well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors;
3. an ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences;
4. an ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering
situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of
engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal
contexts;
5. an ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide
leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals,
plan tasks, and meet objectives;
6. an ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and
interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions; and
7. an ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate
learning strategies.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
UCRT - University Required Oral Communication
This is a C course, so to pass the course students must pass the communications
content. No matter how high the student’s grade, if the communications
component is not passed, the student fails the course.
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
No Textbook Needed
[16.0pt] Additional Instructional Materials
This Material is: Required
Additional phase-relevant resources will be provided via Canvas.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Grades will be a combination of team and individual grades as reflected in the
chart below. Communications content must be passed with a C or higher to
pass the class. Peer performance will be determined by an anonymous survey
at the end of the course.
[16.0pt] Course Grades
[14.0pt bold] Team Grades
[14.0pt bold] % of
[14.0pt bold] Final
[14.0pt bold] Grade
[14.0pt bold] Grade Type
[12.0pt] Project Charter
[12.0pt] 5%
[12.0pt] Technical
[12.0pt] Phase Presentations
[12.0pt] 1-3
[12.0pt] 15%
[12.0pt] (5%
[12.0pt] ea)
[12.0pt] Phase 4 Presentation
[12.0pt] 10%
[12.0pt] Project Showcase
[12.0pt] 5%
[12.0pt] Final Report
[12.0pt] 20%
[14.0pt bold] Individual  Grades
[12.0pt] Phase Presentations
[12.0pt] 15%
[12.0pt] Communication
[12.0pt] Writing Assignments
[12.0pt] 18%
[12.0pt] Writing
[12.0pt] Peer Performance
[12.0pt] 12%
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late work will not be accepted unless student rule 7 applies. Please notify the
instructors in advance if possible if student rule 7 will apply to an assignment.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Class dates and topics
Course
Schedule
[15.0pt bold] Section 901 Class Schedule [Wednesday]
[11.0pt bold] Phase
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] #
[11.0pt bold] Date
[11.0pt bold] Topic
[11.0pt bold] Phase 0
[11.0pt bold] 1
Jan-
14
Intro, Survey
[11.0pt bold] 2
Jan-
21
Teams, Project, Travel Information
[11.0pt bold] Phase 1
[11.0pt bold] Discover
[11.0pt bold] 3
Jan-
28
Phase 1 Kickoff
[11.0pt bold] 4
Feb-
4
Phase 1 Presentations
Group A
[11.0pt bold] 5
Feb-
11
Phase 1 Presentations
Group B
Course
Schedule
[11.0pt bold] Phase 2
[11.0pt bold] Define
[11.0pt bold] 6
Feb-
18
Phase 2 Kickoff
[11.0pt bold] 7
Feb-
25
Phase 2 Presentations
Group B
[11.0pt bold] 8
Mar-
4
Phase 2 Presentations
Group A
[11.0pt bold] Phase 3
[11.0pt bold] Develop
[11.0pt bold] 9
Mar-
18
Phase 3 Kickoff
[11.0pt bold] 10   Mar-
25
Phase 3 Presentations
Group A
[11.0pt bold] 11
Apr-
1
Phase 3 Presentations
Group B
[11.0pt bold] Phase 4
[11.0pt bold] Deliver
[11.0pt bold] 12
Apr-
8
Phase 4 Kickoff
[11.0pt bold] 14
Apr-
15
Phase 4 Presentations
Group B
[11.0pt bold] 15
Apr-
22
Phase 4 Presentations
Group A
Deliverable dates for assignments
Groups A and B
[11.0pt bold] Section 901 Deliverable Schedule: Group A
[10.0pt bold] Phase
[10.0pt bold] Deliverable
[10.0pt bold] Due Date
[10.0pt] Phase 0
[10.0pt] Student Survey
14-Jan
[10.0pt] Code of Conduct
27-Jan
[10.0pt] Phase 1
[10.0pt] Phase 1 Slide Deck
3-Feb
[10.0pt] Project Charter
6-Feb
[10.0pt] Writing Assignment 1
11-Feb
[10.0pt] Phase 2
[10.0pt] Phase 2 Slide Deck
3-Mar
[10.0pt] Writing Assignment 2
4-Mar
[10.0pt] Phase 3
[10.0pt] Phase 3 Slide Deck
24-Mar
[10.0pt] Writing Assignment 3
1-Apr
[10.0pt] Phase 4
[10.0pt] Phase 4 Slide Deck
21-Apr
[10.0pt] Writing Assignment 4
22-Apr
Groups A and B
[10.0pt] Big Deliverables
[10.0pt] Project Showcase
24-Apr
[10.0pt] Final Report
30-Apr
[11.0pt bold] Section 901 Deliverable Schedule: Group B
[10.0pt bold] Phase
[10.0pt bold] Deliverable
[10.0pt bold] Due Date
[10.0pt] Phase 0
[10.0pt] Student Survey
14-Jan
[10.0pt] Code of Conduct
27-Jan
[10.0pt] Phase 1
[10.0pt] Phase 1 Slide Deck
10-Feb
[10.0pt] Project Charter
13-Feb
[10.0pt] Writing Assignment 1
11-Feb
[10.0pt] Phase 2
[10.0pt] Phase 2 Slide Deck
24-Feb
[10.0pt] Writing Assignment 2
4-Mar
[10.0pt] Phase 3
[10.0pt] Phase 3 Slide Deck
30-Mar
[10.0pt] Writing Assignment 3
1-Apr
[10.0pt] Phase 4
[10.0pt] Phase 4 Slide Deck
14-Apr
[10.0pt] Writing Assignment 4
22-Apr
[10.0pt] Big Deliverables
[10.0pt] Project Showcase
24-Apr
[10.0pt] Final Report
30-Apr
[10.0pt] *** Individual Assignments
[16.0pt] AI Statement
With the emergence of artificial intelligence (AI) technologies, the ways in which we
define our creative processes continue to transform. AI generators are rapidly
evolving from simple editing for grammatical errors and spelling mistakes
(Grammarly, MS Word Spell Check) to sophisticated text production (ChatGPT,
Google Bard, etc.), as well as image, computer code, and audio generation. The
presence of such tools, however, does not replace our need to learn how to draft,
revise, and reflect on texts, programs, drawings and how to exercise information
literacy and personal responsibility in how we locate, evaluate, incorporate, and cite
primary/ secondary sources. For example, the Association for Writing Across the
Curriculum states the following: Writing to learn is an intellectual activity that is
crucial to the cognitive and social development of learners and writers. This vital
activity cannot be replaced by AI language generators (AWAC).
Engaging in the various aspects of creative pursuits (e.g., writing, coding, drawing) is
critical to education in a broad sense. While AI technologies will continue shaping
how we approach these creative tasks, the critical work of creativity relies on
integrity, originality, and ethical conduct in regard to appropriate representation as
an author or creator. Thus, submitting work with a significant percentage of AI-
generated content, unless otherwise permitted, can be considered academic
misconduct under Texas A&M University Student Rule 20. Students must therefore
cite the use of Generative AI tools and document what they have contributed to an
assignment.
You may use generative AI in this class with the following restrictions:
1. You may not divulge confidential client information to any AI model.
2. You must declare the AI model and its role in the work.
3. You must review and confirm all AI output.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[14.0pt] Course Details
Team Assignments:  The instructional team will assign teams based on student
input. Students who do not submit the course questionnaire by the established
deadline will be assigned to a project without their input.
Class Meetings:  Class attendance is required of all students for introductory (first
two weeks) and phase kick-off sessions (as noted on schedule). For team
presentation days, attendance is required for the entire class time for all team
members in the specified group. Attendance on presentation days for the alternate
group is allowed and encouraged.
Technical Review Presentations:  Technical review presentations are formal
(prepared slides and remarks), graded events with all team members presenting
and all team members participating. Every team member should contribute to
answering questions at the end of the presentation. During technical review
presentations, the lead instructor and teaching assistants will provide feedback on
the technical aspects of the project, and the communication instructors will provide
feedback on presentation design and delivery. Technical presentation slides must
be uploaded to Canvas no later than 11:59 PM the day prior to the technical review
session (per deliverables schedule).
Team Meetings:  Active engagement and participation are essential elements of the
capstone project experience. Students are expected to fully contribute to all team
activities, including meetings with sponsors, faculty advisors, and internal team
discussions. These interactions are vital to the success of the project and provide
opportunities to collaborate, problem-solve, and apply professional communication
skills. Ensuring meaningful participation in these engagements supports both
individual and team development throughout the course.
Engineering Project Showcase Video:  The Engineering Project Showcase Video is
a mandatory participation event for all teams and all team members. Each team will
prepare a video demonstrating their capstone project. Industry judges assess each
team’s work, and prize money is awarded to the top teams.
[14.0pt] Additional Information
The project sponsor is the client. This is the owner of the issue, problem, or
opportunity central to the project.
Each team is required to select a faculty advisor. The faculty advisor is a Texas A&M
faculty member who offers guidance on the project. Normally, the faculty advisor is
selected by the team for their expertise in the area of their project.
The course faculty includes the  lead instructor, communications instructors , and
teaching assistants . The lead instructor is responsible for the capstone design
program and for providing feedback to teams on the technical aspects of their
projects. The course writing and communication instructors are responsible for
executing the course’s communication and writing components. Teaching assistants
will also provide technical feedback as well as guidance on projects and
presentations throughout the course (i.e. in advance).
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
As previously noted, class attendance is required of all students for introductory
(first two weeks) and phase kick-off sessions (as noted on schedule). For team
presentation days, attendance is required for the entire class time for all team
members in the specified group.
Lack of attendance/participation (including consistent tardiness) as noted by the
instructors or peers (on the peer evaluation) will result in a reduction of the peer
performance grade.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the  First Amendment.