<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Industrial and Systems Engineering
[16.0pt] ISEN 632 Syllabus
Section 700 (59783)
Human Factors Engineering for Aerospace Designs
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days:
Start Time: N/A
End Time: N/A
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ONLINE ONLINE
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Nancy Currie-Gregg
Email:  currie-gregg@tamu.edu
Office Location:  ETB 4080, ZACH 510C
Phone:  979-458-2342
Office Hours
Monday: 12:00-1:00p, ETB 4080 | Wednesday: 5:00-6:00p (online)
Preferred Contact Method
Communication with the instructor throughout the semester is highly encouraged.
Students needing assistance should attend office hours with either the instructor or
GTA. Additionally, to provide timely responses to student questions and to deliver
announcements to the class quickly, an MS Teams site will be established and used
throughout the semester. All students must have access to MS Teams and accept
the invitation to join the course site. Communication via MS Teams is highly
preferred instead of email.
Any communications with the instructor that contain personal information must be
done via private chat through MS Teams. MS Teams chats/messages may also be
used for student-to-student communication or to post questions to the entire class
or subgroups.
Webpage:  https://safe.engr.tamu.edu
Biography
Dr. Nancy Currie-Gregg is the Director of the Texas A&M University Space Institute.
As the Don Lummus '58 Professor of Practice in Engineering, she holds joint
appointments in the Departments of Aerospace Engineering and Industrial and
Systems Engineering at Texas A&M University's College of Engineering.
Internationally recognized for her human-system integration, safety engineering,
and risk management expertise, her research focuses on optimizing human
performance and safety in aerospace systems. She also serves on the Board of
Directors for the Texas Space Commission, leading initiatives that promote growth
across all sectors of the Texas space economy.
Dr. Currie-Gregg spent the majority of her career supporting NASA's human
spaceflight programs. A former NASA astronaut, she flew on four space shuttle
missions, logging over 1,000 hours in space, and made significant contributions to
the development of human spaceflight operations. Following the Space Shuttle
Columbia tragedy, she managed the Space Shuttle Program Safety and Mission
Assurance Office, overseeing the agency's return-to-flight efforts. She later served
as Principal Engineer and Chief Engineer with the NASA Engineering and Safety
Center, where she led independent engineering assessments for high-risk human
spaceflight initiatives. A retired U.S. Army Colonel and Master Army Aviator, she
accrued more than 4,000 flight hours in both rotary- and fixed-wing aircraft.
Dr. Currie-Gregg holds a Bachelor's degree in Biological Sciences with honors from
The Ohio State University, a Master of Science in Safety Engineering from the
University of Southern California, and a Ph.D. in Industrial Engineering from the
University of Houston.
Socials
https://www.linkedin.com/in/curriegregg/
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Human Factors Engineering for Aerospace Designs. (3-0). Credit 3. Physiological and
psychophysiological issues encountered in aviation and space environments and
their effect on human cognitive and physical performance; survey methods for
human workload and performance evaluations; apply human-systems design
principles to an aerospace design project. Prerequisites: Graduate classification or
approval of instructor. Cross-listed with AERO 636.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
This course is designated as an online, distance learning course. It will be conducted
concurrently with a “face-to-face” course on the Texas A&M University campus.
Distance students may participate in the course synchronously, via Zoom, during
the scheduled lecture periods on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 09:35-10:50 a.m. or
11:10 a.m.- 12:25 p.m. CT. Students should contact the instructor 24 hours in
advance of the lecture period to attend via Zoom. Only students registered in 700-
sections of the course may exercise this option.
Alternatively, distance-learning students whose work schedules preclude
synchronous participation in lectures may choose to take the course
asynchronously. All lectures will be recorded and available the same day.
Due to the pace of the course, distance students must be diligent about watching
the recorded lectures per the course schedule and adhere to the scheduled due
dates for all assignments and exams. All distance learning students are expected to
keep up with the pace of the course by watching the lecture recordings and
completing any lecture activities within three days of the recording date. All course
deliverables for distance-learning students will be submitted electronically through
the course Canvas site.
For any lab activities, distance-learning students will be provided with de-identified
data in order to complete all assignments. Recordings of the lab activities will also
be uploaded to Canvas.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Graduate classification or approval of instructor.
Cross Listing: AERO 636/ISEN 632.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Analyze how human sensory, motor, and cognitive attributes may influence
human performance in the operation of aviation and space systems.
Discuss principle physiological and psychophysiological concerns related to
aviation and spaceflight environments and evaluate their potential impact on
human performance.
Formulate and evaluate principled hypotheses for human-system design
optimization and improvement.
Critique published literature on physiological and psychophysiological issues
and evaluate proposed mitigations and countermeasures.
Develop solutions to current human-system integration challenges for
aerospace applications.
Assess proposed design solutions from the perspective of human
performance to include physical/cognitive workload, attention, situation
awareness, and mission performance.
Synthesize and effectively communicate attributes of the proposed design
solutions to include specific human-system integration requirements, system
characteristics, and human performance assessment results.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
This is a cross-listed course with both AERO and ISEN sections due to the
interdisciplinary nature of the subject. It is also stacked with the undergraduate
versions of the course (AERO 436/ISEN 432). Graduate and undergraduate students
will have different requirements and weighting for quizzes, homework assignments,
and the course project.
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Human Factors in Aviation and Aerospace
ISBN:  9780124202023
Authors:  Joseph Keebler, Elizabeth H. Lazzara, Katherine
Wilson, Elizabeth L. Blickensderfer
Publisher:  Academic Press
Publication Date:  2022-10-26
Edition:  3rd Ed.
URL for Resource:
https://app.knovel.com/kn/resources/kt013FK6J6/kpHFA
AE001/pdf
Notes:
Available through the TAMU Library:  University Libraries
This material Is: Required
Space Safety and Human Performance
ISBN:  9780081018705
Authors:  Barbara G. Kanki, Jean-Francois Clervoy, Gro
Sandal
Publisher:  Butterworth-Heinemann
Publication Date:  2017-11-10
URL for Resource:
https://research.ebsco.com/c/ybus2u/ebook-
viewer/pdf/6hixt6civf/page/pp_Cover
Notes:
Available through the TAMU library:  University Libraries
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[12.9pt] Grading Policy
Performance in the course will be evaluated through individual activities and a
group term project. Below is a summary of the course requirements and their
relative contribution to the final course grade.
Course evaluation methods
Method of evaluation
Percent of grade
Lecture activities
10%
Quizzes (4)
35%
Homework
25%
Project (Interim deliverables 45%, final deliverables
55%)
30%
Grading Scale (based on weighted total score):
A = 89.5-100%; B = 79.5-89.4%; C = 69.5-79.4%; D = 59.5-69.4%; F =  ≤  59.4%
Lecture Activities
Class attendance and participation are the individual responsibility of each student.
Students are expected to attend all lectures and participate in the learning process
unless they have a university-approved absence (see  Student Rule 7 ).
This course will use active learning methods, such as group activities, discussions,
surveys, and experiential learning, to encourage student engagement in their
learning. The points for each lecture activity will vary, with those associated with
experiential learning opportunities having the most points.
All lecture activities must be completed in class and may not be submitted late
unless the instructor has granted an extension due to a pre-approved university-
excused absence. If a student misses an activity due to a university-excused
absence (see  Student Rule 7 ), and has notified the instructor, in writing, in advance
of the absence, they may receive an extension to the lecture activity submission
deadline.
Quizzes
There will be four quizzes throughout the semester. The detailed schedule denotes
what material will be covered on each quiz.
Quizzes for distance-learning students will be administered on the same day as the
on-campus quiz. The quiz time will be determined by polling distance-learning
students and selecting an evening time that accommodates working students. All
quizzes will be proctored by the instructor or GTA.
Homework
There will be approximately five homework assignments during the semester.
Detailed instructions for each homework assignment, including due dates and
times and the maximum possible points for each assignment element, will be
provided on the course Canvas site and discussed during lectures.
Some homework assignments will also be designated as “design competitions.”
Students who present superior solutions for the assignment will be awarded extra
credit points, which will be applied to the homework grade.
Course Project
A crucial aspect of the course is participation in a group project to design an aircraft
or spacecraft system that enhances operator effectiveness, usability, and safety.
This project aims to deepen comprehension and understanding by applying course
concepts and methods to create systems that account for human capabilities and
limitations in aerospace environments.
The instructor will form teams based on each student's assessment of their
interests and capabilities. Each team will select an aerospace human-system design
project (e.g., a situational awareness display, rover controller, personal restraint
system, payload workstation, etc.) and research the need for a solution, develop a
proposed design, construct a prototype, and test or evaluate the prototype using
the techniques and methods discussed in this course.
There will be several interim deliverables throughout the semester to ensure
progress on the project. These include a design concept of operations, HSI design
requirements, and human-in-the-loop testing and evaluation criteria. The final
deliverables for the course project are a prototype, an oral presentation by the
project team, and a final report. All team members must attend and participate in
the presentation. Distance-learning students may pre-record their portion of the
presentation or participate virtually, via Zoom, during the scheduled presentation.
Additionally, there will be an award for the best design, as determined by an expert
panel. The due dates for all deliverables are provided in the detailed course
schedule.
Details regarding specific formats and requirements for all course project
deliverables will be covered during lectures and posted on Canvas. Additionally,
detailed grading rubrics for all deliverables will be provided and posted well in
advance of the due dates. All students in the group will receive the same score on
the project, unless indicated otherwise based on peer evaluations.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Homework and project assignments submitted after the due date/time will not
receive total credit, unless the delay is due to a university-excused absence per
Student Rule 7 . Points will be deducted for assignments submitted past the due
date and time on Canvas—equivalent to 20% of the total points possible for each
day, or portion thereof, past the due date. No late homework or project
assignments will be accepted after 4 days.
Lecture activities may not be submitted late unless an extension has been granted
due to a pre-approved university-excused absence.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
A detailed course schedule, including homework assignment and project
deliverable due dates is provided in Appendix A and posted on Canvas. Any
updates to the schedule will be announced during lectures and through Canvas
announcements.
Course topics:
Aerospace health and human performance risks
Aerospace environments: Physical and cognitive stressors
Aerospace human-system design process, including safety considerations
Anthropometric considerations for spacecraft and aircraft
Habitability considerations for long-duration space missions
Cognitive workload, fatigue, attention, and situational awareness
Aerospace vehicle designs: Displays & controls
Physical/cognitive workload evaluation: physiological and subjective
measures
Human performance & usability evaluations
Human reliability measures and human error mitigation strategies
Human-system interface design for Extravehicular activity (EVA)
Detailed course schedule
[10.0pt] Date
[10.0pt] Lecture
[10.0pt] Subject
[10.0pt] Assignments
01-13-
26
1
Course intro/Aerospace health & human
performance
01-15-
26
2
Microgravity effects on health and performance
01-20-
26
3
Microgravity effects on health and performance
01-22-
26
4
Neurovestibular effects/spatial disorientation
Homework 1
01-27-
26
5
Visual effects and illusions
01-29-
26
Lab 1
Vestibular effects and illusions (ETB 2005)
02-03-
26
6
[11.0pt bold] Quiz 1  | Spaceflight-associated neurovestibular
effects
02-05-
26
7
Concept of operation/Human-Systems Engr
requirements
Project
deliverable 1
02-10-
26
8
Sustained accelerations & vibrations
Homework 2
02-12-
26
9
High altitude & radiation
02-17-
26
10
Cognitive workload and fatigue
Project
deliverable 2
02-19-
26
11
[11.0pt bold] Quiz 2  | Anthropometry
02-24-
26
Lab 2
Anthropometry (in-class)
Homework 3
02-26-
26
12
Anthropometric considerations: Aircraft
03-03-
26
13
Anthropometric considerations & habitability:
Spacecraft
Project
deliverable 3
03-05-
26
14
[11.0pt bold] Quiz 3  | Attention and situational awareness
[10.0pt] Date
[10.0pt] Lecture
[10.0pt] Subject
[10.0pt] Assignments
03-10-
26
[11.0pt bold] No Classes: Spring Break
03-12-
26
[11.0pt bold] No Classes: Spring Break
03-17-
26
15
Aerospace vehicle interface design: controls
03-19-
26
16
Aerospace vehicle interface design – displays,
part 1
Project
deliverable 4
03-24-
26
17
Aerospace vehicle interface design – displays,
part 2
03-26-
26
18
Workload evaluation: Physiological measures
Homework 4
03-31-
26
19
Workload evaluation: Subjective measures
04-02-
26
20
[11.0pt bold] Quiz 4  | Safety considerations for human-
systems
04-07-
26
Lab 3
Physiological measures (ETB 2005)
04-09-
26
21
Dynamic accelerations/crew injuries
04-14-
26
22
Human reliability measures and human error
management
Homework 5
04-16-
26
23
Extravehicular activity (EVA)-unique design
considerations
Project
deliverable 5
04-21-
26
24
Project presentations
Project
deliverable 6
04-23-
26
25
Project presentations
04-28-
26
26
Project presentations/Course review
Project
deliverable 7
Homework assignments
Assignment
Date due
Topic
Homework 1
01-22-2026
Aerospace HSI design/mitigation needs
Homework 2
02-10-2026
Spatial disorientation & design mitigations
Homework 3*   02-24-2026
Acceleration mitigations
Homework 4*   03-26-2026
Safe haven design (anthropometry &
habitability)
* Design
competitions
Assignment
Date due
Topic
Homework 5
04-14-2026
Workload evaluation
* Design
competitions
Project deliverables
Deliverable
Type
Date due
Project deliverable
1
Project topic and rationale for need
02-05-2026
Project deliverable
2
Concept of operations
02-17-2026
Project deliverable
3
HSI design requirements
03-03-2026
Project deliverable
4
Preliminary design approach
03-19-2026
project deliverable
5
Prototype
04-16-2026
Project deliverable
6
Project presentation
04-21-28-2026
Project deliverable
7
Prototype report
04-28-2026
Quiz schedule
Quiz
Date
Lecture material
covered
Quiz 1
02-03-2026
Lectures 2, 3, 4, 5
Quiz 2
02-19-2026
Lectures 7, 8, 9, 10
Quiz 3
03-05-2026
Lectures 11, 12, 13
Quiz 4
04-02-2026
Lectures 15, 6, 17, 18, 19
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
Other resources:
The detailed lecture schedule, supplemental reading and reference material, lecture
slides, and all homework and project assignments will be posted on course Canvas
site. Reading the referenced material prior to viewing the lectures is essential in
order to be prepared to effectively participate in class discussions.
Discussion forums
Discussion forums for various topics will be provided on MS Teams will be used as a
means for student collaborations and discussions.
Course material and copyright:
All materials used in this course are copyrighted. “Materials” includes all items
produced for this course, such as the syllabus, detailed course schedule, lecture
slides, on-line lecture videos, homework or exam questions and solutions, and
additional resources posted on the course site by the instructor.
You may not copy or distribute course materials, unless expressly granted
permission by the author. Posting course materials on education technology
company websites (e.g., Chegg, Course Hero, etc.) is expressly prohibited. Violations
of this course policy will be treated as academic misconduct in accordance with
Aggie Honor System Office policies.
Re-grading Policy
Students have three days following the release of grades for an assignment or quiz
to submit a re-grade request. The regrading request must be submitted in writing
(not to exceed 1 page with 11-point font and single spacing). The request must
clearly indicate the relevant problem(s) with the grade and justification for why re-
grading is warranted.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
The primary goal of this course is for students to understand the effects of
aerospace environments on human health and performance, and to formulate
design approaches to mitigate these effects. Judicious and ethical use of Artificial
Intelligence (AI) tools can assist with initial comprehension and practice of course
concepts. Limited use of AI is therefore permitted to support student learning, but
not to replace a student’s original work.
Examples of  permitted use  of AI agents include the following:
To assist with comprehension of course material or concepts
The use of AI-based tools to further explore concepts presented in the
course is encouraged. For example, AI tools may be used to provide
alternative explanations of concepts presented in lecture materials or
textbooks. AI may be used as a study aid, similar to tutoring, but not to
generate material that is submitted for academic credit.
To assist with the readability of homework or project assignments
Use of AI tools to revise and edit a student’s own writing to improve clarity,
organization, or readability is permitted. However, using an AI tool to
generate responses, analyses, calculations, or written content for homework
or project assignments is not permitted, even if the output is subsequently
modified.
Instructions for each homework or project assignment will specify whether and how
AI-based tools may be used for that assignment. If any AI tools are used at any
stage during completion of an assignment, students must properly cite the use of AI
and submit the following information with the assignment:
The name of the AI tool and the specific version used
A brief explanation of why assistance from the AI tool was sought
Any prompts used, provided exactly as input to the tool, enclosed in
quotation marks.
Students should be aware that AI-generated results may be inaccurate, incomplete,
or biased. Students are personally responsible for verifying the accuracy of any
information obtained from AI tools. Additionally, copyrighted materials (including
lecture materials) and personal or sensitive information should not be shared
unintentionally when interacting with AI agents.
Use of AI assistants during any portion of a quiz is strictly prohibited .
Any use of AI assistance during a quiz will be considered academic misconduct
under Rule 20.1.2.2.1 (“Cheating”) and a violation of the Aggie Honor Code. See the
Aggie Honor System Office for additional information.
Questions regarding citation, academic integrity, or acceptable use of AI in this
course should be directed to the instructor  prior to  the assignment submission.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.