<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 463 Syllabus
Section 550 (58972)
Networks and Distributed Processing
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 10:20AM
End Time: 11:10AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  KIRK 206
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: W
Start Time: 12:40PM
End Time: 1:30PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  KIRK 206
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Marian Zaki
Email:  mzaki@tamu.edu
Office Location:  Engineering Classroom and Research Building (ECRB) – Room
309F
Phone:  409-740-5511
Office Hours
M 11:30 AM – 1:00 PM
T 9:30 PM – 10:30 AM
F 9:00 AM – 12:30 PM By appointment
Preferred Contact Method
mzaki@tamu.edu
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Networks and Distributed Processing. (3-0). Credit 3. Basic hardware/software,
architectural components for computer communications; computer networks,
switching, routing, protocols and security; multiprocessing and distributed
processing; interfacing operating systems and networks; case studies of existing
networks and network architectures. Prerequisite: CSCE 313 or approval of
instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  CSCE 313 or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
At the end of the course students will be able to utilize operating-system sockets
APIs, create efficient network applications and build multi-threaded decentralized
frameworks, analyze performance and security of networks, develop protocols, and
construct models of their system.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Computer Networking a Top-Down Approach
ISBN:  978-0-13-668155-7
Authors:  James F. Kurose and Keith W. Ross
Publisher:  Pearson
Edition:  8th Edition
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Course Evaluation
Method of Evaluation
​Weight
Mini-Exams (estimated 3 in total)
15%
Final Exam
15%
Assignments
30%
Course Project
30%
Attendance and Active Classroom Participation
10%
[11.0pt bold] Total Possible Score
[11.0pt bold] 100%
Letter Grades
​Grade
Range
[10.0pt] A
[10.0pt] 90 ≤ Score
[10.0pt] B
[10.0pt] 80 ≤ Score < 90
[10.0pt] C
[10.0pt] 70 ≤ Score < 80
[10.0pt] D
[10.0pt] 60 ≤ Score < 70
[10.0pt] F
[10.0pt] Score < 60
[11.0pt bold] Attendance and Active Classroom Participation
Coming prepared   for class is defined as having studied the material
covered in the previous class or any pre-assigned readings and arriving at
class on time.
10% of the course grade will be assigned to attendance, active classroom
participation and general classroom behavior and etiquette. Here are the
things that can result in points deducted
Missing more than 2 classes without prior notification and acceptable
absence (See attendance policy section)
Cell phone use
Arriving more than 5 minutes late to class
Having earbuds/headphones on (even if not being used)
Browsing Internet, playing games or working on other course work
during class time
Random walks in and out of class
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Each student gets  one free pass  for a late submission (up to 3 days) with
no penalty. The free pass must be claimed before the deadline (student
must email the professor). One day late submission will have 10% points
deducted, two days late submission will have 20% points deducted. No later
submissions will be graded. The free pass can be reclaimed for extra credit
at the end of the semester if never utilized (great deal!)
Students with 504 accommodations will get the necessary accommodations
per their accommodation letter
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Refer to Canvas for detailed information regarding each week’s lecture topics and
assignments. The following schedule is tentative and subject to change (dates, times
and topics of certain exams or assignments might change) based on student and
course progress. Assignments and projects due dates will be advertised in Canvas.
Any changes to be made on the go, will be clearly communicated with students in
class.
Course Schedule
[11.0pt bold] Dates
[11.0pt bold] Week   Topics
01/12 – 01/14
01
Course Introduction and Overview
Chapter 1:
Internet Protocols
Network Edge and Core
Setting up Dev Tools – Linux VM + VSCode with C++ plugins + Assig 1: Wireshark
getting started
Assig 1: Intro to Wireshark Lab
01/19
02
No Lecture – Martin Luther King, Jr. Day
01/21
02
Chapter 1 – cont. :
Performance
Security
Network Layers
History
Assig 2: Circuit Switching vs. Packet Switching
01/26 – 01/28
03
Introduction to Sockets programming and Multithreading
principles
Project 1: Event-Driven Client/Server Application
02/02 – 02/04
04
Mini-Exam 1: Chapter 1
Chapter 2:
Principles of Network Applications
Web and HTTP
02/09 – 02/11
05
Chapter 2 – cont:
FTP
E-mail
DNS
P2P File Sharing
Assig 3: Wireshark HTTP and DNS Lab
[11.0pt bold] Dates
[11.0pt bold] Week   Topics
02/16 – 02/18
06
Chapter 3:
Transport Layer Services
Multiplexing and Demultiplexing
Connectionless Transport
Project 2: DNS Faulty Client Application
02/23 – 02/25
07
Mini-Exam 2: Chapter 2
Chapter 3 – cont.:
Reliable Data Transfer
03/02 – 03/04
08
Chapter 3 – cont.:
Reliable Data Transfer
​Connection-Oriented Transport
03/09 – 03/13
--
Spring Break – No Classes
03/16 – 03/18
09
Chapter 3 – cont.:
Principles of Congestion Control
​TPC Congestion Control
Course Project Announced: Real-Time Event Streaming System
03/23 – 03/25
10
Chapter 4:
Network Layer Overview
Routers
​IP
Assig 4: CISCO Packet Tracer
03/30 – 04/01
11
Mini-Exam 3: Chapter 3
Chapter 5:
Routing Algorithms
04/06 – 04/08
12
Chapter 5 – cont.
SDN Networking
04/13 – 04/15
13
Chapter 6:
Introduction to the Link Layer
​LAN Addressing
04/20 – 04/22
14
Chapter 6 – cont.:
Multiple Access Protocols
Link-Layer Addressing
04/27 – 04/28
15
Buffer week for incomplete topics
Final Course Project Presentations
[11.0pt bold] Dates
[11.0pt bold] Week   Topics
04/29
16
No Lecture – Reading Day
04/30
16
Final Exam – Time/duration to be confirmed
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
Course Assessments and activities:
[10.0pt bold] Course Project
The course project will be completed in teams of 2-3 students
The project will aggregate different development technologies – at a course
that is a 400-level course – students are expected to utilize their
programming knowledge and ability to research resources to complete the
project requirements. This means a lot of self-learning will be required from
students. Time and dedication are essential and expected. Utilizing the right
resources in the correct way is encouraged – including generative AI tools.
Any code segments used from generative AI models must be thoroughly
verified (line by line), tested carefully and given proper citation.
Peer reviews will be part of the project assessment process, 30% of the final
project grade will be allocated to individual contribution.
[10.0pt bold] Assignments
Assignments will be regularly posted to Canvas along with the due dates.
Submission of assignments must be done through Canvas by the assigned
due date – emailed submissions shall not be graded!
Each assignment will have specific submission requirements; students are
expected to read and understand each of these requirements and ask
questions if in doubt.
Assignments will alternate between coding assignments, hands-on
Wireshark lab assignments, and CISCO packet tracer labs.
The professor reserves the right to discuss the submitted work with any
student if there is any suspicion or evidence of online or peer copying
without proper citations.
[11.0pt bold] Exams
All exams will assess the students’ understanding of the concepts discussed
throughout the course as well as their ability to apply them correctly to
solve different problems.
Students are expected to complete on their own some pre-identified end of
chapter problems from the textbook, similar problems should be expected
in exams.
[11.0pt bold] Teaching Strategies
Among human innovations, computers and networking stand out as having
the greatest impact on society: think of our world before and after computers
and the Internet. In this course we will learn and understand that networking
in its essence is the science of orchestrating layered protocols to enable
seamless communication.
Networking is also the science of balancing competing goals: efficiency,
reliability, fairness, scalability, and security, where every gain comes with a
cost elsewhere. These ideas bring in rich discussions and conversations in the
classroom, as computer scientists, our mission is to question the design of
protocols, identify trade-offs and think innovatively to solve some of the
pressing problems in networking.
The course will provide a platform for rich discussions and analysis of the
different network layers in a top-down approach. Students are encouraged to
actively participate in these discussion.
[11.0pt bold] Understanding the Course Academic Integrity
In this course, all assignments should reflect your own work unless it’s a
group assignment. You are allowed to discuss high-level concepts with your
classmates, but you are not allowed to share code nor look at each other’s
code or solutions. Academic integrity is crucial and will be taken seriously, as
it upholds the principles of honesty, fairness, and originality in students' work.
For team projects, each student's active contribution to their team is essential
for the successful completion of the project, as it upholds the integrity and
collaborative spirit expected in this course. By contributing to the project and
not relying on teammates doing all the work will foster a sense of
responsibility and accountability, which are key values in both academic and
professional settings. Teamwork encourages mutual respect, trust, and
communication, qualities that are vital for success in the real world.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Unless indicated in the assignment or project and authorized by the professor, the
use of generative AI to complete the work will be considered a violation of academic
integrity. If in doubt about what it means or counts as a utilization of generative AI,
ask the professor prior to attempting the task to avoid any unexpected penalties, in
other words: Ask for permission instead of forgiveness.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
Galveston Students:
Technology Services - Help Desk
[10.5pt] E-mail:  Helpdesk@tamug.edu
[10.5pt] Phone: 409-740-4714
[10.5pt] Location: Bldg 3007 (CLB), Rm 113
[10.5pt] Hours: Monday - Friday 7:30am to 6:00pm
[10.5pt bold] Canvas LMS Technical Support
[10.5pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[10.5pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[10.5pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[10.5pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
[10.5pt] navigation menu.
[10.5pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] Learning Resources
The textbook authors have provided several resources for students to utilize to
complement their learning experiences through animations for networks protocols,
knowledge checks questions, and interactive end of chapter problems. The
students are highly encouraged to check these resources out as the course
progresses.
https://gaia.cs.umass.edu/kurose_ross/
Any other complementary learning resources (lecture slides, reading documents,
videos, etc.) will be provided and made available on Canvas on a weekly basis.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
If for any reason you are unable to attend a class you will need to email the
professor for an excused absence. The professor reserves the rights to assess if the
reason is valid or not and request any supporting documentation.
Missing quizzes or exams does not guarantee a makeup unless the reason involves
significant and unavoidable circumstances, such as severe illness or
emergencies, and is properly documented .
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.