<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 412 Syllabus
Section 550 (59021)
Cloud Computing
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 2:20PM
End Time: 3:35PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  CLB 210
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Marian Zaki
Email:  mzaki@tamu.edu
Office Location:  Engineering Classroom and Research Building (ECRB) – Room
309F
Phone:  409-740-5511
Office Hours
M 11:30 AM – 1:00 PM
T 9:30 PM – 10:30 AM
F 9:00 AM – 12:30 PM By appointment
Preferred Contact Method
mzaki@tamu.edu
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Cloud Computing. (3-0). Credit 3. Operating system and distributed systems fields
that form the basis of cloud computing such as virtualization, key-value storage
solutions, group membership, failure detection, peer to peer systems, datacenter
networking, resource management and scalability; popular frameworks such as
MapReduce and HDFS and case studies on failure determination. Prerequisite:
Grade of C or better in CSCE 315 or CSCE 331.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 315 or CSCE 331.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
[12.0pt] At the conclusion of this course, students should be able to:
[12.0pt] ● Discuss the concepts of cloud computing
[12.0pt] ● Utilize key underlying technologies such as virtualization
[12.0pt] ● Design and build simple architectures in cloud
[12.0pt] ● Monitor and manage lifecycle of virtual entities in cloud using tooling from
[12.0pt] a major cloud provider
[12.0pt] ● Produce highly available, elastic and resilient systems using cloud
[12.0pt] architectural patterns
[12.0pt] ● Analyze problems and solutions to become an entry level cloud
[12.0pt] practitioner
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Optional
Cloud Computing with Security – Concepts and Practices
Authors:  Naresh Kumar Sehgal, Pramod Chandra P.Bhatt, John M.Acken
Publisher:  Springer
Edition:  2nd edition
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Weighted Assessments
Method of Evaluation
Weight
AWS Academy Modules
[11.0pt bold] 40%
Guided Labs
35%
Knowledge Checks
5%
Course Project
30%
Attendance and Class Presentations
10%
Midterm
10%
Final Exam
10%
[11.0pt bold] Total Possible Score
[11.0pt bold] 100%
[11.0pt bold] Guided Labs
Cloud is a vast topic and unlike many of Computer Science basic and foundational
classes, it is simply impractical to cover all the material in lecture hours as well as
practically apply them. The other challenge is, as much as we will attempt to discuss
cloud computing topics in this course in a vendor agnostic way, it’s impractical to
get any hands-on experience without actually utilizing a vendor (the irony of cloud!)
Hence, this course will automatically enroll you in AWS Learning Academy through
the A&M’s partnership with AWS. The online courses will give you access to lab work
activities which are designed to help you better understand and apply cloud
concepts and are crucial to developing skills that are key for entry level cloud
practitioners to perform in their first year of any developer’s job. Lab exercises are
to be completed individually and submitted by due date.
[11.0pt bold] Knowledge Checks
Knowledge Checks are multiple choice questions to be completed online every
week after completing the modules. The knowledge checks are available online for
24 hours, you can take them anytime in the day and submit them. It is made up of
10 to 20 questions. These knowledge checks cover the module topics, so you must
watch the videos and read the materials for each module before you attempt the
knowledge checks. Sufficient time is provided so that time is not a problem in
completing the knowledge checks. You are prohibited from using online tools or AI
to complete these knowledge checks.
[11.0pt bold] Course Project
The course project is a multi-phase, open-ended team-based project in which
teams will choose a system to design and implement as a cloud-native software
system. Students will work together to design, architect, and deploy the application
on a public cloud platform. The phases will progressively help the teams define
system requirements, decompose the system into microservices, design service
APIs, and map architectural components to appropriate cloud services.
The project emphasizes cloud architecting principles, and DevOps practices by
establishing a continuous integration and continuous deployment (CI/CD) pipeline
that supports independent service deployment.
Here is the grading breakdown of the different project phases:
Course Project Phases
​Project Phase
Weight
Phase 0 – Team Formation and Project Pitch
5%
Phase 1 – System Requirements and Services Decomposition
25%
Phase 2 – CI/CD pipeline and Cloud Services Mapping
20%
Phase 3 – Final System Implementation and Deployment
50%
[11.0pt bold] Total Possible Score
[11.0pt bold] 100%
Peer reviews will be part of the project assessment process, 30% of the final project
grade will be allocated to individual contribution.
GitHub setup:
The course project will be developed using a CI/CD pipeline that will start from
GitHub, each project team must create a  private  repository on GitHub. The
professor must be granted access to the repository to monitor the project activities.
The repository is a documentation of the development process, hence teams must
have clear commit messages documenting all changes made along the way. The
GitHub usage will impact the project grade. For example, code added to the
repository and submitted within a short period (the magic of going from no code to
a working solution quickly) will result in extensive deduction of points. The GitHub
will also be used to monitor individual team members contributions.
[11.0pt bold] Attendance and Active Classroom Participation
Coming prepared for class is defined as having studied the material
covered in the previous class, arriving to class on time.
10% of the course grade will be assigned to attendance, active classroom
participation and general classroom behavior and etiquette. Here are the
things that can result in points deducted
Missing more than 2 classes without prior notification and acceptable
absence (See attendance policy section)
Constant cell phone use
Arriving more than 5 minutes late for class
Having earbuds/headphones on (even if not being used)
Browsing Internet, playing games or working on other course work
during class time
Random walks in and out of class
The following grading scale is based on the total average weighted grades earned
over the course of the semester.
Letter Grades
Grade
Range
A
90 ≤ Score
B
80 ≤ Score < 90
Grade
Range
C
70 ≤ Score < 80
D
60 ≤ Score < 70
F
Score < 60
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Each student gets  one free pass  for a late submission (up to 3 days) with no
penalty. The free pass must be claimed before the deadline (student must
email the professor). One day late submission will have 10% points deducted,
two days late submission will have 20% points deducted. No later
submissions will be graded. The free pass can be reclaimed for extra credit at
the end of the semester if never utilized (great deal!)
Students with 504 accommodations will get the necessary accommodations
per their accommodation letter
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
A tentative list of topics for each part is included below. Students are required to
complete the AWS Academy modules listed below each week by the indicated due
date. Weekly in-class discussion topics are tentative based on the progress of the
course (and possible  invited industry guest speakers ), any changes to be made to
the weekly schedule will be clearly communicated in class and through Canvas.
Course Schedule
[11.0pt bold] Dates
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Topics
01/13 - 01/15
01
Course Introduction and Expectations
Motivation for Cloud
[11.0pt bold] Dates
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Topics
[11.0pt bold] Foundations Course
Module 1: Cloud Concepts Overview
Module 2: Cloud Economica and Billing
Module 3: AWS Global Infrastructure
Due: 01/24
01/19
02
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day
01/20 - 01/22
02
Cloud and Distributed Computing
Project Phase 0 Released
[11.0pt bold] Foundations Course
Module 4: AWS Cloud Security
Module 5: Networking and Content Delivery
Due: 01/31
01/27 - 01/29
03
Designing Cloud Based Solutions
Virtualization
[11.0pt bold] Foundations Course
Module 6: Compute
Module 7: Storage
Module 8: Databases
Due: 02/07
02/03 - 02/05
04
Containers
Class Group Activity: Creating Docker Container
Projects Pitches + Project Phase 1 Released
[11.0pt bold] Foundations Course
Module 9: Cloud Architecture
Module 10: Auto Scaling and Monitoring
Due: 02/14
02/10 - 02/12
05
Microservices
Class Group Activity: Identifying the projects’
microservices
[11.0pt bold] Cloud Developing Course
Module 1: Developing Course Introduction
Module 2: Introduction to Developing on AWS
Module 3: Developing Storage Solutions
Due: 02/21
02/17 - 02/19
06
Elasticity and Auto Scaling
Load Balancers
[11.0pt bold] Cloud Developing Course
Module 4: Securing Access to Cloud Resources
Module 5: Developing Flexible NoSQL Solutions
Due: 02/28
[11.0pt bold] Dates
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Topics
02/24 - 02/26
07
Cloud Management
[11.0pt bold] Cloud Developing Course
Module 6: Developing REST APIs
Project Phase 1 due
Due: 03/07
03/03 - 03/05
08
[11.0pt bold] Midterm Exam
Migrating to the cloud
Project Phase 2 released
[11.0pt bold] Cloud Developing Course
Module 7: Developing Event-Driven Serverless Solutions
Module 8: Introducing Containers and Container Services
Due: 03/14
03/09 - 03/13
--
Spring Break – No Classes
[11.0pt bold] Cloud Developing Course
Module 9: Caching Information for Scalability
Module 10: Developing with messaging services
Due: 03/21
03/17 - 03/19
09
Cloud Workload Characterization
Identity and Access Management
[11.0pt bold] Cloud Developing Course
Module 11: Defining Workflows to Orchestrate Functions
Due: 03/28
03/24 - 03/26
10
Cloud Monitoring and Problem Detection
Project CI/CD Pipeline setup
[11.0pt bold] Cloud Developing Course
Module 12: Developing Secure Applications
Due: 04/04
03/31 - 04/02
11
Project Cloud Architecture Mapping + Project
Phase 3 released
[11.0pt bold] Cloud Developing Course
Module 13: Automating Deployment with CI/CD Pipeline
[11.0pt bold] Project Phase 2
Due: 04/11
04/07 - 04/09
12
Cloud Security
04/14 - 04/16
13
Project Working Sessions
04/21 - 04/23
14
Project Working Sessions
[11.0pt bold] Dates
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Topics
04/28 - 04/29
15
Last week of classes, reserved for review and catch
up
Project Final Presentations
[11.0pt bold] Project Phase 3
Due: 04/29
04/29
16
No Class – Reading Day
04/30
16
Final Exam – Time/duration to be confirmed
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[10.5pt] Unless indicated in the assignment or project and authorized by the professor, the use of
[10.5pt] generative AI to complete the work will be considered a violation of academic integrity. If
[10.5pt] in doubt about what it means or counts as a utilization of generative AI, ask the professor
[10.5pt] prior to attempting the task to avoid any unexpected penalties, in other words: Ask for
[10.5pt] permission instead of forgiveness.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
Galveston Students:
Technology Services - Help Desk
[10.5pt] E-mail:  Helpdesk@tamug.edu
[10.5pt] Phone: 409-740-4714
[10.5pt] Location: Bldg 3007 (CLB), Rm 113
[10.5pt] Hours: Monday - Friday 7:30am to 6:00pm
[10.5pt bold] Canvas LMS Technical Support
[10.5pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[10.5pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[10.5pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[10.5pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
[10.5pt] navigation menu.
[10.5pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] Learning Resources
All students will be granted access to AWS Learning Academy courses, the courses
will have weekly modules to complete as well as graded hands-on labs.
Texas A&M at Galveston
On-campus learning resources to support students in achieving excellence are
available through The Center for Academic Learning Support ( tamug.edu/cals ).
[16.0pt] College and Department Policies
Additional University Policies for A&M Galveston Campus
Academic Integrity Statements and Policy
You can learn more about the Honor Council Rules and Procedures as well as your
rights and responsibilities at  tamug.edu/HonorSystem.
Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Students who need someone to talk to can call (409) 740-4736 from 8:00 a.m. to
5:00 p.m. weekdays or visit  tamug.edu/counsel  for more information. For 24-hour
emergency assistance during nights and weekends, contact the TAMUG Police Dept
at (409) 740-4545. 24-hour emergency help is also available through the 988
Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at  988lifeline.org.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.