<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 222 Syllabus
Section 500 (46464)
Discrete Structures for Computing
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 08:00AM
End Time: 09:15AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  HRBB 124
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Dylan Shell
Email:  dshell@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 315
Phone:  (979) 845-2369
Office Hours
Walk-ins: Wednesdays, 3:00pm–4:00pm (otherwise by appointment)
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Discrete Structures for Computing. (3-0). Credit 3. Mathematical foundations from
discrete mathematics for analyzing computer algorithms, for both correctness and
performance; introduction to models of computation, including finite state
machines and Turing machines. Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in MATH 142,
MATH 147, MATH 151, or MATH 171. Cross-listed with ECEN 222.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in MATH 142, MATH 147,
MATH 151, or MATH 171. Cross Listing: ECEN 222/CSCE 222.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the student who has done the requisite work will
be able to:
[12.0pt] understand the basic principles of logic, proofs and sets.
[12.0pt] apply results from discrete mathematics to the analysis of algorithms.
[12.0pt] produce proofs by induction and apply counting techniques.
[12.0pt] explain models of computation.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Discrete Structures
ISBN:  ISBN 978-3-031-73433-5
Authors:  Andreas Klappenecker and Hyunyoung Lee
Publisher:  Springer
Publication Date:  2025
This material Is: Optional
Discrete Mathematics and Its Applications
ISBN:  978-1-259-67651-2
Authors:  Kenneth H. Rosen
Publisher:  McGraw Hill
Publication Date:  2019
Edition:  8th
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[12.9pt bold] Grading Policy
[12.0pt] The grading scale is:
[12.0pt] A 90-100
[12.0pt] B 80-89
[12.0pt] C 70-79
[12.0pt] D 60-69
[12.0pt] F 59 or below
[12.0pt] Grades will be based on:
[12.0pt] 35% : Final examination
[12.0pt] 25% : Midterm exam I
[12.0pt] 25% : Midterm exam II
[12.0pt] 15% : Homework (about 6, weightings will vary but only slightly)
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[12.0pt] The due dates for the homework will always be at least 7 days after the
[12.0pt] homework is posted, and will be designated via canvas. Occasionally the
[12.0pt] instructor will permit a moderate extension to the deadlines, those extensions
[12.0pt] will apply to every student equally, and will be communicated in class and by
[12.0pt] updating the details in the canvas submission system.
[12.0pt] The course has a late policy with a discount of 33⅓ % per day. This is
[12.0pt] computed by the minute (not as a step-function at midnight) which works out
[12.0pt] to follow this rule (where  t  is in units of minutes late):
[12.0pt] AwardedScore  = max(0,(4320 -  t )/4320) ⋅   RawScoreAsIfNotLate
[12.0pt] The discounting is linear and reaches zero after 3 days.
[12.0pt] Proof: 60 minutes in an hour, 24 hours in a day, so 3 days means
[12.0pt] 60×24×3 = 4320. Of course 33⅓ ×3 = 1.
[12.0pt] The midterm and final exams, being examinations, are not permitted to be
[12.0pt] late; they will be in-person written examinations. Midterms will be taken
[12.0pt] during class.
[12.0pt] Standard university reasons for lateness shall, of course, be respected so long
[12.0pt] as the student communicates with the instructor as soon as possible—this
[12.0pt] means, specifically, it has been communicated before the deadline has passed
[12.0pt] and not  ex post facto  whenever feasible. (Note that job interviews and
[12.0pt] attendance of the career fair are, as per Student Rule 7, generally not excused
[12.0pt] absences: but the instructor will judge them in his own discretion.)
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[12.0pt bold] Week-by-week topic breakdown (timeline is approximate, and intended for
[12.0pt bold] guidance only)
[10.5pt] Week-by-week topic breakdown
[10.5pt bold] Week
[10.5pt bold] Date
[10.5pt bold] Topic
[10.5pt bold] Textbook
[10.5pt bold] Readings
[10.5pt] 1
[10.5pt] 1/13,
[10.5pt] 1/15
[10.5pt] Course Introduction. Propositional
[10.5pt] and Predicate Logic
[10.5pt] 1, 2.1-2. 2
[10.5pt bold] Week
[10.5pt bold] Date
[10.5pt bold] Topic
[10.5pt bold] Textbook
[10.5pt bold] Readings
[10.5pt] 2
[10.5pt] 1/20,
[10.5pt] 1/22
[10.5pt] Inference and Proofs
[10.5pt] 2.3-2.8
[10.5pt] 3
[10.5pt] 1/27,
[10.5pt] 1/29
[10.5pt] Sets, Functions
[10.5pt] 3.1–3.5, 3.7-3.8,
[10.5pt] 7
[10.5pt] 4
[10.5pt] 2/3, 2/5
[10.5pt] Algorithms and their complexity
[10.5pt] 10.1, 10.4-10.6
[10.5pt] 5
[10.5pt] 2/10,
[10.5pt] 2/12
[10.5pt] Sequences and sums, Proof by
[10.5pt] Induction
[10.5pt] 4.1-4.4
[10.5pt] 6
[10.5pt] 2/17,
[10.5pt] 2/19
[10.5pt] Proof by Induction (cont.); Feb 19:
[10.5pt] Midterm I
[10.5pt] 4.6
[10.5pt] 7
[10.5pt] 2/24,
[10.5pt] 2/26
[10.5pt] Recursive Definitions and Functions
[10.5pt] 4.8–4.9
[10.5pt] 8
[10.5pt] 3/3, 3/5
[10.5pt] Catch-up lecture
[10.5pt] -
[10.5pt] 3/10,
[10.5pt] 3/12
[10.5pt] Spring break
[10.5pt] 9
[10.5pt] 3/17,
[10.5pt] 3/19
[10.5pt] Combinatorics, counting, and
[10.5pt] enumeration
[10.5pt] 11
[10.5pt] 10
[10.5pt] 3/24,
[10.5pt] 3/26
[10.5pt] Recurrences and their solution
[10.5pt] 13.1-13.3, 13.6
[10.5pt] 11
[10.5pt] 3/31,
[10.5pt] 4/2
[10.5pt] Relations, Equivalence classes
[10.5pt] 3.6, 5
[10.5pt] 12
[10.5pt] 4/7, 4/9
[10.5pt] Apr 7th: Midterm II, Partial Orders
[10.5pt] 6.1-6.3
[10.5pt] 13
[10.5pt] 4/14,
[10.5pt] 4/16
[10.5pt] Languages and Grammars, and Finite
[10.5pt] State Automata
[10.5pt] 14
[10.5pt] 4/21,
[10.5pt] 4/23
[10.5pt] Cardinality and Turing Machines
[10.5pt] 3.9
[10.5pt] 15
[10.5pt] No class
[12.0pt bold] Week-by-week topic breakdown
[10.5pt] Comprehensive Final Exam (Thursday, May 1st, 1:00-3:00 PM)
[16.5pt] Homework assignments
[12.0pt] The only submissions for this course will be homeworks, these are to be completed
[12.0pt] in LaTeX and submitted electronically via canvas. There will be approximately six
[12.0pt] of these posted, thus, at a rate of about one every two weeks. They involve a
[12.0pt] substantial effort, despite only counting for 15% of the grade. They are intended as
[12.0pt] the exercises used to ensure you understand the material and prepare for the
[12.0pt] examinations. We do have a pair of undergraduate TAs who will help with the
[12.0pt] grading, however they will check only a subset of the questions for correctness, and
[12.0pt] assess the submission for completeness. Solutions will be posted ±3 days after the
[12.0pt] deadline.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[16.5pt] Use of online resources, AI-tools, friends, etc. for your
[16.5pt] homework assignments
[12.0pt] The homeworks are intended to give you cause to dig into the textbook, to think
[12.0pt] about the material (including pondering weird edge-cases) and gain facility with
[12.0pt] doing the mathematics. You may find other resources (e.g., online forums, your
[12.0pt] friends and classmates, your TAs, AI-tools) helpful. Any of these may be used, so
[12.0pt] long as you acknowledge this fact in your submissions. Attempt the homework, but
[12.0pt] use other materials once you get stuck: the more stubbornly you try things yourself,
[12.0pt] the better for development of your own understanding (within reason, because you
[12.0pt] are using time that displaces other learning experiences). The portion of the grade
[12.0pt] for the homeworks is really to provide enough incentive to do the homework
[12.0pt] assignments without them being "starved" by the other demands of your life.
[16.0pt] Learning Resources
[11.0pt bold] Office Hours
Both the instructor and the course TA(s) office weekly office hours. You are strongly
encouraged to attend these in order to obtain additional guidance and help.
[11.0pt bold] Peer Teachers
The Peer Teacher (PT) program ( Visit the  Peer Teacher Central  website) is designed to
support your learning by bridging the gap between students and instructors. Peer
Teachers are high-performing undergraduates who have successfully completed this
course (or similar ones) and are eager to help others succeed.
PTs can help you:
Understand course and lab material
Practice computational thinking
Improve your programming skills
Because they recently completed the same classes, PTs are in an excellent position
to guide you through challenging concepts and assignments. Students consistently
report that working with PTs has a positive impact on their performance. The
program supports CSCE courses at the 100, 200, and 300 levels.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.