<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 431 Syllabus
Section 500 (37725)
Software Engineering
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 11:10AM
End Time: 12:25PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  EABA 118
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: F
Start Time: 08:20AM
End Time: 10:00AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 582
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Pauline Wade
Email:  paulinewade@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 108
Phone:  979 676 0480
Office Hours
Thursday: 10-11 am
Preferred Contact Method
Email
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Software Engineering. (2-2). Credit 3. Application of engineering approach to
computer software design and development; life cycle models, software
requirements and specification; conceptual model design; detailed design;
validation and verification; design quality assurance; software design/development
environments and project management. Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in CSCE
315 or CSCE 331 or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 315 or CSCE 331 or
approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Apply the engineering approach to the design and development of computer
software systems.
Explain major software life cycle models and their appropriate use in project
contexts.
Document software requirements and specifications in a clear, testable, and
structured form that captures user needs.
Design conceptual and detailed software models that align with requirements
and specifications.
Implement and test software modules to verify functional correctness against
documented requirements and validate them against user needs and project
goals.
Evaluate software products and processes for quality assurance, including
planning for risks and quality, and for conformance to relevant external and
internal organizational standards.
Use industry-standard software development and project management tools
to plan, monitor, and deliver software projects.
Function effectively as part of a software engineering team, demonstrating
professional responsibility and clear communication with stakeholders.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Optional
Software Engineering: A Practitioner's Approach.
Authors:  Roger Pressman
Publisher:  McGraw-Hill
Publication Date:  2019
Edition:  9th
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
The course simulates a software development organization with performance expectations
that operationalize the Course Learning Outcomes listed above. Each performance
expectation below is aligned with one or more Course Learning Outcomes (LOs).
1. Understand factors that contribute to high quality software, including processes,
methods, tools, and risk mitigation, monitoring, and management across the
software engineering lifecycle from conception through deployment and support.
Success is measured by the  team being able to deliver the most important
features to stakeholders by the end of the semester according to the
agreed to timeline, and at least a satisfactory stakeholder or user
feedback** .
In support of this outcome, below are sub-outcomes:
Evaluate stakeholders’ requirements as a basis for the design,
implementation, and validation of a computing-based solution, with
success measured by reaching at least an average satisfactory
stakeholder or user feedback** .
Build a computing-based solution, evaluate (e.g., test, review), using an
appropriate software architecture and deployment environment, with
success measured by zero high severity (i.e., no workarounds) errors
discovered by stakeholders .
2. Apply the most effective communication techniques to function effectively as part
of a team, with people you have not worked with before, who may have diverse
backgrounds/personalities, with success measured by at least  satisfactory peer
feedback** .
3. Answer questions (impromptu or not) about the software engineering
lifecycle, software engineering processes, methods, and tools; and how they
contribute to developing high quality software ,  as indicated by the  ability to
communicate a clear, succinct answer with specific supporting examples .
** The feedback scores are from pre-defined surveys administered by the instructor.
This class is a 4-credit hour class and meets officially for a little over 4 hours per week (250
minutes). For every one credit hour in which you enroll, you will spend 2-3 hours outside of
class studying. Therefore, a reasonable course load (including project work) will consume on
average 6-9 hours outside of class. Total commitment for this class is 10 to 13 hours per week
averaged across the semester.
[11.0pt bold] The final grade you will receive in the class will be  based on points accumulated  during the
semester. Thus, both continued progress on the process and the quality of your results will
decide your grade.
The grading scale is A ≥ 90% > B ≥ 80% > C ≥ 70% > D ≥ 60% > F.
We make every effort to provide you with the opportunity to earn an A (including
opportunities for extra credit), so at the end of the course, an 89.9 is a B. We do not curve in
this class. Rather, we teach proficiency which means that we have clear expectations in terms
of what you should complete and what knowledge you should have obtained by the end of
the course to succeed and to earn an A. If you are contributing appropriately and improving
based on our feedback, you should expect an A.
Breakdown of the total percentage points in the class
Category
Percentage
○ Professionalism & Continuous Improvement -
Engagement, communication, reliability, and use
of feedback to improve your work and teamwork
over the semester.
25%
○ Project
Sprint 0 – 15%
Sprint 1 – 3%
Sprint 2 – 7%
Sprint 3 – 10%
Project Turnover – 15%
50%
○ Governance - Understanding and applying
project management, process, and quality
practices to plan, monitor, and control the
team’s software engineering work.
25%
Extra Credit**: See separate section below.
Depending on the complexity or
time involved, 1-5 % point(s) is
added to the final grade. For
example, producing an
educational video for the benefit
of other students can be worth
1% points.
[12.0pt] Project
Group Project Grade
You will work in a project group to develop a software application for intended users
or stakeholders, applying an engineering approach to design, development,
validation, documentation, and an end-of-semester class demonstration of the
solution. The focus is not only on the final product but also on the process, project
management, and teamwork.
The course simulates a software development organization, with you playing the role
of a member of a project team. You will develop an application using appropriate
software architecture and deployment environments for your intended users or
stakeholders. Each project group must use the Ruby on Rails framework and
PostgreSQL (and/or alternative technology as approved by the instructor).
The instructor team will act as managers and mentors.
The class will be divided into project groups. To ensure inclusiveness and avoid
students feeling excluded, you will be assigned to a project group based on your lab
section and the results of a skill survey (to be given when class starts) to help
distribute students with prior experience in particular technologies evenly across
project groups.
Project rubrics, used to assess your class performance, and a project notebook to
guide you in the software engineering process will be distributed once the project
groups are formed. Additional grading criteria may be added to the initial rubric;
these will count as extra credit, and you and/or your team are under no obligation to
fulfill the additional criteria. You can still earn a grade of A by fulfilling the basic
requirements.
Because your teammates’ grades are tightly coupled with your own commitment to
the class, your grade is contingent on your equitable contribution to producing
project deliverables as described in the project rubric. Expectations include:
Software made available to intended users or stakeholders. A key
prerequisite to getting an A in the class is the delivery of a tested
working system that meets stakeholders’ expectations (as indicated by
stakeholder or user feedback of at least “meets expectations”) by the
end of the semester.
Final code that is clean and understandable submitted in the assigned
GitHub Classroom repository at the end of the semester, along with
any required supporting documentation (for example, readme, code
comments, and similar materials).
Submission of assigned documents (for example, requirements,
designs, and project-management-related documents) to support
understanding and proper execution of your system.
Submission of a high-quality slide deck and recording of the final
presentation, evaluated on the clarity of communication and
demonstration of your system. These will be viewed by other students
in the class and will be used as the basis for their end-of-semester
reflection.
Submission of reflections that are relevant and thorough (using the
given template).
Submission of other artifacts as required by the instructor (for
example, project management related reports).
Presentation of incremental progress during a project audit in each
sprint conducted by the instructor team. These audits are mandatory
and will be recorded. Students who are absent (see section “Graded
Absence” below) will receive a 30% deduction from the group sprint
grade unless the absence or lateness is considered excused.
Submission of all required peer feedback and completion of all project
deliverables on the dates specified in Canvas; these deadlines are
intentional to ensure there is sufficient time to complete grading.
Final course grades will not be released until all project deliverables
are verified and accepted by the instructor team.
Your project grade can increase, based on (but not limited to) the following:
Excellent project deliverables that exceed basic expectations.
Excellent peer feedback and contribution to the group project.
Effective, polite, and collaborative communication with the
instructor/teaching team.
Your project grade can decrease, based on (but not limited to) the following:
Poor stakeholder feedback or deployment of an application with high-
severity defects (that is, with no acceptable workaround).
The instructor team’s perception of your effort. This can be due to
poor peer feedback from your peers (after the validity of the feedback
is confirmed), other measures of contribution, or other factors at the
instructor team’s discretion.
Regularly missing your group meetings without notice.
Failure to complete required peer feedback on time.
Unprofessional or inappropriate (for example, rude) communication
with instructors or classmates.
Individual Contribution
1. This represents your individual proficiency during one individual project
audit conducted towards the end of the semester, which will assess your
knowledge on a specific topic(s) in software engineering.
2. Each team member is expected to commit to the team’s GitHub
repository on a regular basis as specified in the project rubric.
3. You are expected to thoroughly test / review your code and develop
automated tests.
4. Extra credit is given for those who assume the Product Owner and Scrum
Master role, if the team grade is >=80%, and stakeholder/user feedback
and peer feedback score are at least meets expectations.
5. Each member of your project team will score and give feedback on the
performance of the other team members through periodic peer feedback
forms throughout the semester. Your peer feedback responses will be
calculated along with the instructors’ peer feedback scores and will be
part of your individual project grade . NOTE: The instructor team has
the right to withhold credit for late submission of peer feedback
unless you have prior approval for late submission. You will receive
two reminders. Failure to submit after the second reminder will
result in a 5% deduction from your final grade, and cannot be
reversed once the peer feedback grades have been posted in
Canvas. This policy is in place to ensure timely distribution of
valuable peer feedback.
Quizzes
Frequent quizzes will be given and will cover material from the homework, lectures,
and any pre & post lecture work. These assessments let us know where your
knowledge might be lacking so that we may be able to make class adjustments and
inform you about the knowledge that you need to have.
Once you have taken the quiz, you are not allowed to talk about its composition with
anyone. Any unauthorized sharing is considered academic misconduct and will be
reported to the honors council and result in the application of an appropriate
[11.0pt bold] sanction. In addition,  quizzes must be done in class, otherwise, submission when
[11.0pt bold] not in attendance can constitute academic misconduct.
Assignments
Some assignments are expected to be completed individually, otherwise
over collaboration may be considered academic misconduct and will be
reported to the honors council and result in the application of an
appropriate sanction.
Assignments are usually due at midnight of the due date through Canvas,
unless otherwise noted. Email submissions will not be accepted.
It is your responsibility to make sure that the submission process is
completed and that the correct assignment is submitted to the correct
place. It is best to double check your submission by downloading it
yourself, then confirming that the one stored in Canvas is the intended
one. Failure to confirm correct submission is not a valid excuse for
incomplete / late assignments
For late submissions, please refer to the section on Late Work Policy.
[12.0pt] Graded Attendance
Since groups will be working on the project during lecture and/or lab, attendance is
important, hence attendance is graded according to the following guidelines:
Attendance will be measured through one or more of the following ways:
electronically (e.g., Canvas Roll Call), hardcopy attendance sheets, quizzes, and
submission of in-class exercises. At the end of the semester, 5 random days in the
semester will be chosen as basis for attendance, for both lab and lecture.
Absence and Tardiness:  Failure to attend a class or late arrival (by
definition >  5 minutes late ) or leaving class early  (> 5 minutes before
class ends ) without prior approval, may be counted as an absence and
will impact your grade. Lateness or absence can be excused per student
rule 7. Please inform the instructor at your earliest opportunity of your
absence / tardiness in the event communication channels are down or
you cannot inform in advance.
Due to the unfortunate consequences and undue burden your frequent
absences would have on the rest of the team,  more than 5 unexcused
absences from either lecture or lab are an automatic forfeit of the
team grade .
Excuses Not Valid:  Oversleeping, cramming, etc., are not valid reasons.
The instructor reserves the right to determine what constitutes a “valid
reason” on a case-by-case basis.
There will be no makeup for attendance unless the absence meets
student rule 7.
Extra Credit
When needed to reinforce proficiency in concepts, extra credit assignments may be
assigned, which will *all* count as extra credit. There is no obligation for you to do
these assignments, rather these should be viewed as opportunities to boost your
grade. Details on extra credit opportunities will be announced.
Depending on the complexity or time involved, extra credit is worth additional
percentage point(s) added to the final grade.
To be eligible for extra credit points, you need to meet the eligibility criteria described
below.
Attendance must be 4 out of the 5 each from lab and lecture  (i.e., in
the Attendance category, your % points should be >= 4%, out of 5%).
At least a  satisfactory peer and stakeholder feedback rating
Instructor discretion based on individual and team performance.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
No “unapproved’ late assignments will be accepted without prior approval and will receive a
grade of 0. No late work will be accepted after the last day of class, irrespective of the
deadline for an assignment.
With pre-approval from the instructor, late submissions are accepted only up to the time that
the solutions will be discussed in class or as agreed to with the instructor depending on the
specific circumstance. Late work approvals must clearly link to an excused absence request
per  Student Rule 7 .
The request for deadline extensions should be submitted at least three business days before
the due date, by sending a request via a link to be given to you by the instructor, especially for
those absences that meet student rule 7. This will allow us time to review your request and
ask for additional information when needed. Technology-related / technological problems nor
failure to confirm correct submission are not an excuse for incomplete or late assignments.
*The only exception is in case of an emergency, where you cannot request in advance. In this
case, you can submit details of your absence when you are able to.
Request for late submissions not related to absences can be considered. The instructor will
base their approval on how well it meets the criteria described in Student Rule 7.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Schedule subject to change. Check Canvas for the most up-to-date schedule and additional
details. Labs will be conducted weekly unless otherwise announced.
Course Schedule
Week #Main Themes
Major Deliverables / Milestones
Week #Main Themes
Major Deliverables / Milestones
1
Overview of the course;
Introduction to software
engineering & Agile; Intro to Rails
Skill Survey; Syllabus & Class
Appreciative Agreement; Appearance
Release
2
Project overview; Requirements &
design; Testing & Quality; TDD
introduced
Project groups announced; Team
Working Agreement; Customer scope
discussion
3
Risk analysis & stakeholder
management; CI/CD; Quality
techniques
Sprint 0 Scope, Backlog, UAT form,
Risk Plan, and Data Design due
4
Correctness & Compliance;
Ensuring integrity through
authentication
Learning Outcomes Pre-Survey; Week
3 Lab; Book Collections due; Sprint 1
begins
5
Creating maintainable code;
Usability & UX design; Efficiency;
Preparing for Sprint 1
Sprint 1 Project Notebook partial
submission
6
Sprint 1 audits and reviews
Sprint 1 Deliverables & Deployment
due; Sprint 1 Project Audit, Review,
Retrospective; Sprint 2 planning and
scope due
7
Project management - estimation,
monitoring & control; Deployment
& support planning
Peer Feedback 1; Sprint 2 Project
Notebook partial submission
8
Sprint 2 audits and reviews; Sprint
3 begins
Sprint 2 Deliverables & Deployment
due; Sprint 2 Project Audit, Review,
Retrospective; Sprint 3 planning and
scope due
9
Spring Break - No class
(Spring Break)
10
Preparing for User Acceptance
Testing (UAT); Configuration
management; Maintenance
overview
Sprint 3 Scope, Backlog, Risk Plan, UAT
form due; Mock UAT setup; Mid-
semester evaluation
11
Project close overview; Project
presentation timeline; Project
turnover report
Sprint 3 Project Notebook partial
submission; Peer Feedback 2; Quality
of peer review evaluation
Week #Main Themes
Major Deliverables / Milestones
12
Project turnover; Final sprint ends;
Customer UAT begins
Sprint 3 Deliverables due; Sprint 3
Project Audit, Review, Retrospective;
Maintenance & Project Turnover
phase begins
13
Project presentations; Course
evaluation
Project Presentations (3 groups);
Quality post-surveys (Compliance,
Integrity, Correctness); CSE Capstone
Expo
14
Project presentations (continued);
Future of software engineering;
Course evaluation
Project Presentations (continued, 3
groups); Quality post-surveys
(Usability, Maintainability); Project
Turnover Notebook partial
submission; Customer UAT ends
15
Final project turnover
deliverables; Maintenance phase
ends; Official project close; Last
lab day
Project Turnover Deliverables due;
Reflection on presentations; Official
Project Close; Extra Credit Educational
Video due
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[12.0pt] Course Expectations
Course expectations, in the form of a course appreciative agreement, will be reviewed and
agreed to in the first 2 weeks of class.
[12.0pt] Course Copyright
The materials used within this course are copyrighted and include, but are not limited to, the
syllabi, quizzes, exams, homework, online handouts, course videos, audio, and visual
recordings of classes, etc. Because these materials are copyrighted, you do not have the right
to copy or distribute these materials, unless permission is expressly granted.
[12.0pt] Learning Resources
LinkedIn Learning modules and other supplementary materials to be assigned.
The Study Hub website lists on-campus learning resources to support students in achieving
academic excellence.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Writing: Use of AI tools, including ChatGPT, is permitted in this course for students who wish to
use them. To adhere to our scholarly values, students must cite any AI-generated material that
informed their work (this includes in-text citations and/or use of quotations, and in your
reference list). Using an AI tool to generate content without proper attribution qualifies as
academic dishonesty.
See  https://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/qanda/data/faq/topics/Documentation/faq0422.
html  for information how to properly cite AI tools. (adapted from University of Massachusetts
Amherst,  https://cte.tamu.edu/getmedia/1d5e4ef6-97f1-4065-987f-3c9dfecbb7bd/TAMU-
CTE_GenAI-SyllabusStatementConsiderations.pdf )
Computer Code. In principle you may submit AI-generated code, or code that is based on or
derived from AI-generated code, as long as this use is properly documented in the comments:
you need to include the prompt and the significant parts of the response. AI tools may help
you avoid syntax errors, but there is no guarantee that the generated code is correct. It is your
responsibility to identify errors in program logic through comprehensive, documented testing.
Moreover, generated code, even if syntactically correct, may have significant scope for
improvement, in particular regarding separation of concerns and avoiding repetitions. The
submission itself must meet our standards of attribution and validation.(from Boris Steipe
(2023) “Syllabus Resources”. The Sentient Syllabus Project  http://sentientsyllabus.org  .)
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
Galveston Students:
Technology Services - Help Desk
[10.5pt] E-mail:  Helpdesk@tamug.edu
[10.5pt] Phone: 409-740-4714
[10.5pt] Location: Bldg 3007 (CLB), Rm 113
[10.5pt] Hours: Monday - Friday 7:30am to 6:00pm
[10.5pt bold] Canvas LMS Technical Support
[10.5pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[10.5pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[10.5pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[10.5pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
[10.5pt] navigation menu.
[10.5pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] Learning Resources
LinkedIn Learning modules and other supplementary materials to be assigned.
The Study Hub website lists on-campus learning resources to support students in achieving
academic excellence.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.