<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Industrial and Systems Engineering
[16.0pt] ISEN 425 Syllabus
Section 500 (53795)
Design and Analysis of Industrial Systems with Simulation
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: M
Start Time: 4:10PM
End Time: 6:00PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 211
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: W
Start Time: 4:10PM
End Time: 6:40PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 211
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Amarnath Banerjee
Email:  banerjee@tamu.edu
Office Location:  4041 ETB
Phone:  979-458-2341
Office Hours
M: 11:00 AM - noon
T: 1:00 PM - 2:00 PM
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Design and Analysis of Industrial Systems with Simulation. (2-3). Credit 3. In-depth
study into the design-modeling and subsequent analysis of contemporary
production/service systems; factory/service systems are modeled using the
ARENA/SIMAN V simulation-animation language; emphasis is placed on the critical
analysis of alternative flow designs of modeled systems using flow and economic
parameters to assess system improvement. Prerequisites: Grade of C or better in
ISEN 210 and ISEN 355.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
There is an approved change to the catalog description to reflect the move away
from the ARENA/SIMAN V simulation-automation language. The revised catalog
description is stated below:
In-depth study into the design-modeling and subsequent analysis of contemporary
production/service systems; factory/service systems are modeled using a modern
simulation software; emphasis is placed on the critical analysis of alternative flow
designs of modeled systems using flow and economic parameters to assess system
improvement.
We will be using the Simio simulation software in this course as a continuation of
the software used in the prerequisite course ISEN 355.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in ISEN 210 and ISEN 355.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
develop and analyze complex models for industrial engineering problems
using commercially available discrete event simulation software,
interpret simulation output using valid statistical methods and make
appropriate recommendations, and
analyze data to determine appropriate input distributions using valid
statistical methods.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Simio and Simulation - Modeling, Analysis, Applications - 7th Edition
Authors:  Jeffrey S. Smith and David T. Sturrock
Publication Date:  August 2024
Edition:  7th Edition
URL for Resource:  https://textbook.simio.com/SASMAA7/
Notes:
The book is available online at the Simio website.
This material Is: Recommended
Simulation Modeling with SIMIO: A Workbook
Authors:  Jeffrey A. Joines and Michael E. Kuhl
Publication Date:  2025
Edition:  6th Edition
URL for Resource:  https://textbook.simio.com/Workbook6/
Notes:
An excellent resource for learning more about building complex Simio models.
This material Is: Optional
Discrete-Event Simulation
Authors:  Jerry Banks, John S. Carson II, Barry L. Nelson, and David M. Nicol
Publisher:  Pearson-Prentice Hall
Publication Date:  2010
Edition:  Fifth Edition
Notes:
This is a good reference text
This material Is: Optional
Simulation Modeling and Analysis
Authors:  Averill M. Law
Publisher:  McGraw Hill
Publication Date:  2024
Edition:  6th Edition
Notes:
This is a good reference text for learning more about simulation theory.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Grade Components and Weights
There are three exams in the course. There will be weekly lab assignments, some
graded homework, regular quizzes, and a project.
Exam 1 and Exam 2 are each worth 10%. The lab exam is worth 30%.
The lab assignments together will be worth 15%. Submissions will not be
accepted after the deadline with the exception of a university excused
absence.
There will be regular quizzes during the semester. The weight of each quiz is
dependent on the number of questions in the quiz. All the quizzes together
will be worth 10%. Quizzes must be taken in the classroom during the
designated quiz time.
Attempting a quiz outside of the classroom is not permitted and will
be treated as a violation of the Aggie Honor Code.
Some of the homework will be collected and graded. The homework grade is
worth 5%.
The project will be worth 20%. More details about the project will be provided
during the semester.
Grading Policy
Grades assigned are: A for 90% - 100%, B for 80% - 89.9%, C for 70% - 79.9%, D for
60% - 69.9%, F for below 60%. Any possibility of a curve on grades will be
announced in the last few days of the semester.
Any disagreements regarding a grade received on any graded material must be
discussed within two business days of the return of the graded material.  No grade
will be changed beyond the two business days limit.
Grades will be maintained in the gradebook within Canvas. Please note that the
automated total and grade calculations on the Canvas gradebook are useless, and
you should not rely on them. Use your engineering/math skills to compute your
[11.0pt bold] score based on the weights described in the  Grade Components and Weights
section above.
[11.0pt bold] Note About Homework
There will be homework assignments that will be assigned regularly. Some of the
homework will be collected and graded. It is in your interest to work on the
homework problems and develop the solutions. The solutions will be posted  for
you to compare your work. You can expect to see quiz questions and exam
problems based on the homework problems.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late work is not accepted in this course.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Weekly schedule of topics
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Topic
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Topic
[11.0pt bold] Week 1 1/12/26 Review of discrete event simulation; system and model;
Analysis of Production System: Push/Pull/CONWIP for single
machine and flowline
[11.0pt bold] Week 2 1/19/26 No class meeting on Monday, January 19 [MLK Day]
Analysis of Production System: Push/Pull/CONWIP for single
machine and flowline
[11.0pt bold] Week 3 1/26/26 Exploring the use of sequences, basic nodes, transporters in
a production system
[11.0pt bold] Week 4 2/2/26   Handling queues; balking and reneging
[11.0pt bold] Week 5 2/9/26   Introduction to simulation-based optimization; use of
OptQuest; handling financial costs
[11.0pt bold] Week 6 2/16/26 Supply chain and inventory control using simulation
[11.0pt bold] Week 7 2/23/26 First Exam Monday, February 23
Supply chain and inventory control continued; ranking and
selection of scenarios; KN algorithm; using OptQuest to
optimize parameters; multi-objective functions; specifying
constraints
[11.0pt bold] Week 8 3/2/26   Exploring Tables, Relational Tables, Task Sequences, Material
Consumption and Production, Resources and Workers, Setup
Times and Material Replenishment
[11.0pt bold] Week of 3/9/26  Spring Break – no classes
[11.0pt bold] Week 9 3/16/26 Lab Exam Monday, March 16
Continuation of Tables, Relational Tables, Task Sequences,
Material Consumption and Production, Resources and
Workers, Setup Times and Material Replenishment
[11.0pt bold] Week 10
[11.0pt bold] 3/23/26
Exploring scheduling using Simio
[11.0pt bold] Week 11
[11.0pt bold] 3/30/26
Sub models: creating submodels for reuse
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Topic
[11.0pt bold] Week 12 4/6/26 No classes on April 4 and 6 due to instructor travel (to be
confirmed)
[11.0pt bold] Week 13
[11.0pt bold] 4/13/26
Sub classing: exploring subclassing of Simio objects to
customize requirements
[11.0pt bold] Week 14
[11.0pt bold] 4/20/26
[11.0pt bold] Second Exam Monday, April 20
[11.0pt bold] Subclassing continued;  Project Presentation and Report on
[11.0pt bold] April 22
[11.0pt bold] Week 15
[11.0pt bold] 4/27/26
Wrap up/summary of course on April 27.
NOTE: Some topics may be changed based on the pace of the class.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
Copyright Notice
All documents used in this course are copyrighted. Here, "documents" means all
materials generated for this class, including, but not limited to, syllabi, quizzes,
exams, problem sets, slide sets, and all materials appearing on CANVAS or sent to
you via email. Because these materials are copyrighted, you do not have the right
to copy any of them for any purpose other than your own personal academic use
unless I expressly grant permission. In particular, course materials may not be
given or sold to any non-profit or for-profit enterprise.
[11.0pt bold] Software
The Industrial and Systems Engineering Department uses Simio under a grant from
Simio LLC ( https://www.simio.com ). Although Simio is installed in the ISEN Cloud, I
strongly recommend that you install a copy of the software on your PC. You will
find the detailed instructions on Canvas and the Technology Support portion of this
syllabus. You will likely find this advantageous for working at home and in the
classroom.
Simio does not work with the Mac Operating System (MacOS), but some students
with Macs indicated that Simio worked well using Bootcamp, but I have no personal
experience with using Simio on a Mac. Simio has provided some helpful resources
for Mac users. This can be found at   https://www.simio.com/publications/simio-
for-mac/ .
Simio is available in the Engineering Desktop available through the Aggie Virtual
Desktop – see  https://service.tamu.edu/TDClient/36/Portal/KB/ArticleDet?ID=657
for more information.
Expectations
Students are expected to attend all class and lab meetings.
Students should come prepared to the class and lab meetings whenever
there are any assigned reading or review assignments.
Students are expected to bring their own computer for every class and lab
meeting.
Missed work due to unexcused absence will not be accepted.
Class Communication
Communication and announcements with the class will be maintained using email
and Canvas.
Most of the class communication will be via email through the TAMUDirect
mailing list maintained by the university. Students are expected to carefully
read all the emails in their entirety.
Some of the important announcements will also be posted in the
“Announcements” section of Canvas.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
According to the Texas A&M University Definitions of Academic Misconduct,
plagiarism is the appropriation of another person's ideas, processes, results or
words without giving appropriate credit ( aggiehonor.tamu.edu ). You should credit
your use of anyone else's words, graphic images, or ideas using standard citation
styles. Artificial Intelligence (AI) text generators and natural language processing
tools (colloquially, chatbots - such as ChatGPT), audio, computer code, video, and
image generators  should not be used for any work for this class without
explicit permission of the instructor  and appropriate attribution. This includes,
but is not limited to,
i. Creating or revising drafts
ii. Editing your work
iii. Reviewing a peer's work
This excludes pre-existing software additions such as spelling and grammar
checkers, which are acceptable.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
These are the instructions that were sent by Simio. Please read carefully and follow.
Simio License for your personal computer
To request a Student License, visit  https://forms.simio.com/f/student-license  and fill
[10.5pt] out the form to receive a Simio Student License. Your Student License Claim Code
[10.5pt bold] is  00150-9s0xrnBf5q . To be approved automatically, make sure to use the claim code
[10.5pt] and your university email address. If the code is omitted or incorrect, your request will
[10.5pt] require manual intervention, which may take up to five (5) business days. Note, we
[10.5pt] cannot provide technical support to students. Instead, please talk to your instructor; if
[10.5pt] they are unable to help resolve your problem, they can send your concern to Simio for
[10.5pt] support.
[10.5pt] You can find important information about licenses, Simio version compatibility,
installation, and troubleshooting at  https://www.simio.com/academic-
licensing/troubleshooting/
[10.5pt] We will be using Simio Version 19.280 during Spring 2026.
[16.0pt] Learning Resources
Some resources that will be helpful in the process of learning Simio.
Learning resources available from Simio on their  website .
Simio has a  YouTube channel  with a number of featured videos.
A series of 12  Simio Tutorials  by Professor Jeff Smith at Auburn University.
A  YouTube channel  maintained by Professor Jeff Smith at Auburn University
explaining simulation and Simio concepts with examples.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
Students are expected to attend class in person and to complete all assignments.
Lab assignment and homework submissions and attempting a quiz after the posted
deadline will not be accepted unless there is a university excused absence.
Please note that the rule regarding job interviews is as follows: “Mandatory
interviews for permanent, full-time employment or full-time internships (including
those that are part of a cooperative education program) that have a duration of at
least 10 weeks, provided that such interviews are related to the student’s
academic program and provided that the interviews are fixed date by employer
policy and cannot be rescheduled. A student may not request excused absences for
employment or internship interviews for more than one scheduled class meeting in
one academic term.” Also, “Documentation from the employer must be provided 5
business days in advance.”
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Course Specific Makeup Work Policy
Students are expected to attend class in person and to complete all assignments.
Lab assignment and homework submissions and attempting a quiz after the posted
deadline will not be accepted unless there is a university excused absence.
Make-up exam will be only for students that have provided documentation
supporting their absence in accordance with the excused absence policy described
in Student Rule 7.
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.