<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Industrial and Systems Engineering
[16.0pt] ISEN 641 Syllabus
Section 701 (39206)
Systems Engineering Methods and Frameworks
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days:
Start Time: N/A
End Time: N/A
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ONLINE ONLINE
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Michael Graul
Email:  mgraul@tamu.edu
Office Location:  ETB 4017 and ZACH 403D
Phone:  979-575-7162
Office Hours
FRI and SUN 3-4p via zoom link:  https://tamu.zoom.us/j/92077192436?
pwd=YPvt6NpI0rT9mSU9H5NdaCxEIty2ar.1
Preferred Contact Method
mgraul@tamu.edu
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Systems Engineering Methods and Frameworks. (3-0). Credit 3. Concepts,
methodology, methods and tools for discovery, definition, analysis, design, creation,
and sustainment of systems involving information, physical, and human elements;
architecture modeling methods include IDEF/UPDM; systems engineering
frameworks include DoDAF/MoDAF, and Zachman; analysis tools include executable
architectures to assess consistency, interoperability and performance.
Prerequisites: MATH 304 or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
course details
[12.0pt] From the instructor
[12.0pt] This course is designed to provide the students with an understanding of the
[12.0pt] concepts, methodology, methods and tools of systems discovery, definition,
[12.0pt] analysis, design, creation, and sustainment. The main focus of the course is to
[12.0pt] develop the students’ critical thinking skills to 1) define and analyze the as-is
[12.0pt] system, 2) develop and communicate the to-be system requirements, 3)
[12.0pt] transition these requirements into the design specification of a new or modified
[12.0pt] system, and 4) evaluate the value, correctness, interoperability, and performance
[12.0pt] of a system design. ISEN 640 is highly recommended as a prerequisite for this
[12.0pt] course
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  MATH 304 or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
The student will learn the component methods for systems architecting including:
function modeling, process modeling, information and data modeling, ontology
modeling and representation, software and system behavioral and structural
design, systems dynamics modeling. The student will also learn the standard
frameworks for structuring the systems development process and documenting the
resulting artifacts. Finally the student will learn the core techniques for system
architecture analysis including: requirements analysis, allocation, assessment, and
design traceability, 2) design verification, validation, and completeness (VV&C), 3)
cost / performance/risk tradeoff analysis, and 4) simulation based (Monte Carlo and
Systems Dynamics) architecture performance assessment. In summary the learning
objectives of this course include:
[12.0pt] 1.  Mastery of component methods for system Architecting:
[12.0pt] a.  Activity Modeling
[12.0pt] b.  Process Modeling
[12.0pt] c.  Information and Data Modeling
[12.0pt] d.  Knowledge Modeling
[12.0pt] e.  Factor Trees and Causal Loop Diagrams
[12.0pt] f.  Solution Creation with DoDAF AV, CV, OV, DIV-1, SysML
[12.0pt] g.  System Design with SysML, DoDAF SV, DIV-2/3
[12.0pt] 2.  Mastery of “framework” of methods
[12.0pt] for structuring the approach to systems development
[12.0pt] 3.  Familiarization with basic architecting and analysis methods :
[12.0pt] a.  Symptom collection and diagnosis
[12.0pt] b.  Need condition formulation
[12.0pt] c.  Requirement constraint formulation
[12.0pt] d.  Requirements Analysis, Allocation, Assessment, and Traceability
[12.0pt] e.  Analysis of Alternatives
[12.0pt] f.  Verification, Validation, and Completeness (VV&C)
[12.0pt] g.  Cost / Performance Based Trades
[12.0pt] h.  Simulation based architecture evaluation and performance
[12.0pt] assessment
[12.0pt] 4.  Familiarization with documentation for system development life cycle
[12.0pt] artifacts
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
The student is required to acquire and study references called out in each module.
Past lectures will be made available for review on-line
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
grading policy
Grading policy
Grading policy
[12.0pt] Class attendance is required unless otherwise arranged with the instructor.
[12.0pt] Homework is due as stated on each Canvas managed assignment.  Class
[12.0pt] time will be used to discuss HW solutions.  Late homework may or may
[12.0pt] not be accepted at the sole discretion of the instructor, except as provided
[12.0pt] for in the Student Rules regarding Academics at  http://student-
[12.0pt] rules.tamu.edu . Take home examinations are due at the time and date stated
[12.0pt] on the Canvas assignment. Late examination submissions are not accepted,
[12.0pt] except as provided for in the Student Rules regarding Academics
[12.0pt] at  http://student-rules.tamu.edu . The material in this course is best learned
[12.0pt] through actual “doing”. Systems Engineering is predominantly practiced a
[12.0pt] team environment.
[12.0pt] Therefore the grades will be determined through student performance on
[12.0pt] homework assignments and in class participation as well as through
[12.0pt] examinations.
[12.0pt] 1.  Homework (25%)
[12.0pt] 2.  Class Participation + Quizzes 25%
[12.0pt] 3.  Take home mid-term exam  25%
[12.0pt] 4.  Final exam  25%
[12.0pt] Optional assignments and test questions may be made available for extra
[12.0pt] credit.
Grading scale
[11.0pt bold] Grading Scale
[12.0pt] Grading will be on the Standard Letter Grading Scale:
[12.0pt] A = 90-100
[12.0pt] B = 80-89
[12.0pt] C = 70-79
[12.0pt] D = 60-69
[12.0pt] F = <60
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[12.0pt] This course will start with the study of component systems as simple or complex
[12.0pt] hybrids, involving information, computation, mechanical, and human elements. Later
[12.0pt] in the course we will study “capabilities” that are formed as collections of
[12.0pt] interoperating systems – referred to in the current vernacular as a system of systems,
[12.0pt] or SOS. We will study the way engineered orchestration of the interoperability and
[12.0pt] combined performance of the collection will result in a desired capability.
[12.0pt] Throughout the course we will study methods, languages, and techniques that enable
[12.0pt] us to ‘view’ and analyze the as-is system, develop and communicate the to-be system
[12.0pt] requirements, and transition these requirements into the design specification of a new
[12.0pt] or modified system. The initial modeling methods focus will be the IDEF function,
[12.0pt] information, process, data, and ontology modeling methods.. Our study will be
[12.0pt] performed within the context of the systems development life cycle and the use of
[12.0pt] frameworks for applying the systems engineering discipline. The DoD Architecture
[12.0pt] Framework (DoDAF) will be the primary structure studied. Other enterprise
[12.0pt] architectural frameworks such as MoDAF, FEAF, and the Zachman AF will be
[12.0pt] overviewed. The SysML/UML languages will be covered as they are a key
[12.0pt] component in these frameworks and the current basis for MBSE (Model Based
[12.0pt] Systems   Engineering). The primary analysis tools covered will be systems dynamics
[12.0pt] simulation. The foundational methods of factor trees and causal loop diagrams that
[12.0pt] support creation of systems dynamics simulation will be covered.
Topical outline
[12.0pt bold] Week
[12.0pt bold] Topic
[12.0pt bold] Required Reading
[12.0pt] 1
[12.0pt] Overview of System Engineering & Architectures
[12.0pt] Methods
[10.0pt bold] See Lecture Slides
[12.0pt] 2
[12.0pt] Function Architecture Method
[10.0pt bold] See Lecture Slides
[12.0pt] 3
[12.0pt] Function Architecture Practice
[10.0pt bold] See Lecture Slides
[12.0pt] 4
[12.0pt] Information & Data Architecture History, Theory,
[12.0pt] & Method
[10.0pt bold] See Lecture Slides
[12.0pt] 5
[12.0pt] Information Architecture Practice
[10.0pt bold] See Lecture Slides
[12.0pt] 6
[12.0pt] Process Architecture Method
[10.0pt bold] See Lecture Slides
[12.0pt] 7
[12.0pt] Process Architecture Practice
[10.0pt bold] See Lecture Slides
[12.0pt] 7
[12.0pt] Mid Term Take Home Exam
[12.0pt] Distributed to Students
[12.0pt] 8
[12.0pt] DoDAF Part I & SysML/UML Introduction
[10.0pt bold] See Lecture Slides
[12.0pt] 8
[12.0pt] Mid Term Take Home Exam Response Due
[12.0pt] 9
[12.0pt] DoDAF Part II & SysML/UML Basics
[10.0pt bold] See Lecture Slides
[12.0pt] 10
[12.0pt] DoDAF Part II & SysML/UML Practice
[12.0pt] 11
[12.0pt] SySML
[10.0pt bold] See Lecture Slides
[12.0pt] 12
[12.0pt] SySML Practice
[10.0pt bold] See Lecture Slides
[12.0pt] 13
[12.0pt] Ontology Architecture History, Theory, Method &
[12.0pt] Practice
[10.0pt bold] See Lecture Slides
schedule continuation
Systems dynamics emphasis
[12.0pt] 14
[12.0pt] Factor Trees, Causal Loops & Systems
[12.0pt] Dynamics Simulation
[10.0pt bold] See Lecture Slides
[12.0pt] 14
[12.0pt] Systems Dynamics Practice and System
[12.0pt] Documentation
[10.0pt bold] See Lecture Slides
[12.0pt] 14
[12.0pt] Final exam distributed to students
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[12.0pt] Required lecture reference readings are included in the lecture slides.
[12.0pt] Select prior year lectures, some reference materials/required readings, and this
[12.0pt] semesters lectures will be made available on Canvas. It is highly recommended that
[12.0pt] students avail themselves of this resource.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
ISEN 641 is interesting in that the SE methods and frameworks discussed are used
to represent knowledge and would likely fit under the symbolic view of AI (versus
say the connectionist view of AI highlighted by heavy emphasis on data processing
and pattern extraction).
SE Methods produce models that embody the very knowledge that AI technologies
seek to leverage (at least that's the hope through elements such as the RAG).
If you can find AI apps that produce the models, using the methods, that we are
covering in the course then by all means make it part of the class discussion.  If you
have a question regarding the use of AI in this course then please ask.  I worked for
Dr. Richard Mayer at KBSI for 30y (the developer of this course).  It's an AI company
and he will be an observer in the course as well.  A major goal of the course is to
produce models that represent knowledge that can used by AI applications.
The bottom line is this - 641 is about the human use of SE methods and techniques
to produce models that can be used both by humans and AI apps.  Using AI apps to
generate these models and their associated design rationale is not an objective of
the course and any attempt to do so must be first cleared with the instructor.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
We will leverage a wide array of tool support from the TAMU VMWare server.  You
should be able to connect to the Engineering desktop using your TAMU logon.  If
connecting from off-campus you may need to use a VPN in order for the TAMU
system to recognize your credentials correctly.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.