<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 441 Syllabus
Section 550 (55317)
Computer Graphics
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 11:30AM
End Time: 12:20PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  PMEC 148
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: R
Start Time: 5:30PM
End Time: 6:20PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  PMEC 148
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Alpaslan Duysak
Email:  aduysak03@tamu.edu
Office Location:  SAGC 703
Phone:  (409) 740- 5513
Office Hours
3:00 PM-4:00 PM, Wednesday
Preferred Contact Method
Email
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Computer Graphics. (3-0). Credit 3. Principles of interactive computer graphics; 2-D
and 3-D rendering pipelines, including geometric object and view transformations,
projections, hidden surface removal, and rasterization; lighting models for local and
global illumination; hierarchical models of 3-D objects; systems and libraries
supporting display and user interaction. Prerequisite: CSCE 221; junior or senior
classification or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
[14.0pt bold] Goals:
[12.0pt] Become familiar with basic 2D rendering concepts and algorithms such as line
[12.0pt] drawing, line and polygon clipping, polygon filling, and antialiasing.
[12.0pt] Understand 3D rendering techniques, including hierarchical model structures,
[12.0pt] geometric transformations, projections, and hidden surface removal.
[12.0pt] Understand basic lighting and shading techniques.
[12.0pt] Understand the basics of color models as they relate to computer graphics.
[12.0pt] Become familiar with basic aspects of geometric and solid modeling.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  CSCE 221; junior or senior classification or approval
of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
[12.0pt] Understand the graphics pipeline and make use of a basic implementation of
[12.0pt] the pipeline in modern hardware (and graphics libraries)
[12.0pt] Apply coordinate transforms and affine transformations, and understand the
[12.0pt] application of such transforms using a vertex shader
[12.0pt] Apply basic geometric computations involving points, lines, planes, and
[12.0pt] triangles related to spatial queries
[12.0pt] Develop basic data structures to represent a mesh, including applying
[12.0pt] transforms and necessary data for shading
[12.0pt] Implement basic rasterization methods (algorithm, stage in the graphics
[12.0pt] pipeline, and relationship to fragment shaders)
[12.0pt] Make use of hierarchical animation
[12.0pt] Create local shading models (Phong, etc.)
[12.0pt] Apply basic texture mapping
[12.0pt] Implement basic ray tracing
[12.0pt] Honors: implement an advanced ray tracing feature
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Fundamentals of Computer Graphics
ISBN:  0367505037
Authors:  Steve Marschner, Peter Shirley
Publisher:  A K Peters/CRC Press
Publication Date:  September 30, 2021
Edition:  4th Edition
Notes:
[12.0pt] NOT REQUIRED
This material Is: Optional
The OpenGL® Programming Guide
Authors:  John Kessenich, Graham Sellers, and Dave Shreiner
Edition:  9th Edition
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[12.0pt] This class will use a standard A, B, C, etc. scale for final grades; depending on the
[12.0pt] distribution, a curve may be applied. The instructor reserves the right to raise grades
[12.0pt] near a borderline to the next highest letter, based largely on the student’s perceived
[12.0pt] effort and participation .
Table 1. Course Grading Breakdown and Weight Distribution
[12.0pt bold] Description
[12.0pt bold] Percentage
[12.0pt bold] Category
[12.0pt] Programming Assignments (5+2)
[12.0pt] Lab Assignments (7)
[12.0pt] 63%
[12.0pt] 7%
[12.0pt] 70% Assignments
[12.0pt] Exam
[12.0pt] 10%
[12.0pt] 30% Exams
[12.0pt] Final Exam
[12.0pt] 20%
Table 2. Final Letter Grade Scale
[11.0pt bold] A
[11.0pt bold] B
[11.0pt bold] C
[11.0pt bold] D
[11.0pt bold] F
[12.0pt] 90 - 100%
[12.0pt] 80 - 89%
[12.0pt] 70 - 79%
[12.0pt] 60 - 69%
[12.0pt] < 60%
[12.0pt bold] Assignments:
[12.0pt bold] Programming Assignments  comprise the single largest portion of the course
[12.0pt] grade. There will be 5+2 programming assignments. These will require
[12.0pt] programming a solution to the given prompt and submitting your code.
[12.0pt bold] Lab Assignments  There will be seven lab assignments designed to help you with
[12.0pt] the more complex tasks.
[12.0pt bold] Exams:
[12.0pt bold] One regular  Exam  and one  Final Exam  represent the summative portion of the
[12.0pt] course.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[12.0pt bold] Late Submissions:
If an assignment accepts late work, submissions received after the deadline will be
subject to a late penalty, which will be computed based on the number of days late. The
penalty will be 15% every day, for up to 4 days. After 4 days, late work will receive no
credit.
Additionally, you have a pool of 10 late days that you can use to extend an assignment
without penalty (max. 3 days per late submission). While the assignments are organized
so that you have plenty of time to complete them, late days give you extra flexibility to
handle unforeseen circumstances according to your own judgment.
To use a late day from your pool, you need to notify the TA. Be sure to specify the
affected assignment.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Table 3. Weekly Schedule
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Topic
1
[12.0pt] Introduction, OpenGL
[12.0pt] HW 1
[12.0pt] LAB 1
2
[12.0pt] Linear Algebra, Rendering Overview
3
[12.0pt] 2D-3D Transformations
[12.0pt] HW 2
[12.0pt] LAB 2
4
[12.0pt] 2D-3D Transformations, Viewing Transformations, Clipping
5
[12.0pt] Viewing Transformations, Clipping
6
[12.0pt] Rasterizing Lines and Triangles
[12.0pt] HW 3
[12.0pt] LAB 3
7
[12.0pt] Antialiasing
8
[12.0pt] Color
9
[12.0pt] Shading and Texture Mapping
[12.0pt bold] EXAM
[12.0pt] HW 4
[12.0pt] LAB 4
10
[12.0pt] Shading and Texture Mapping
11
[12.0pt] Shadows
[12.0pt] HW 5
[12.0pt] LAB 5
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Topic
12
[12.0pt] Ray Tracing
13
[12.0pt] Ray Tracing Acceleration
[12.0pt] HW 6 (2 parts)
[12.0pt] LAB 6 (2 parts)
14
[12.0pt] Geometry
15
[12.0pt] Curves and Surfaces
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
Use Canvas to get access to the lecture notes, quizzes, tests, and assignments, and check your
grades regularly during the semester.
Individual programming MUST be done on your own. You must write assignments in your own
words. Plagiarism will not be tolerated, and violations will be reported to the Honor Council.
To help identify possible instances of plagiarism, we may use automated systems for
plagiarism detection. Students found to have engaged in plagiarism will be referred to the
Aggie Honor System.
Collaboration is important for facilitating learning, and your peers can be a great resource. So,
you are encouraged to discuss problems and general approaches with each other (but not
actual solutions). Regardless, unless stated otherwise, all assignments must be done on your
own. It is okay to share general approaches, directions, and so on. You may not look at
someone else’s code (online or in person). If you have an issue that needs clarification,
contact an instructor or TA. Additional overriding instructions and grading policies on
permitted collaboration may be provided in the project documents
[16.0pt] AI Statement
The use of artificial intelligence (AI) tools, including code-generation and language-model
systems, is permitted in this course only when explicitly allowed by the instructor. Students
are responsible for ensuring that all submitted work reflects their own understanding and
complies with Texas A&M University’s academic integrity standards. Unless otherwise stated,
AI tools may not be used to generate complete solutions or replace independent reasoning.
Any authorized use of AI must be clearly disclosed, and students remain fully accountable for
the correctness, originality, and integrity of their work.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
Galveston Students:
Technology Services - Help Desk
[10.5pt] E-mail:  Helpdesk@tamug.edu
[10.5pt] Phone: 409-740-4714
[10.5pt] Location: Bldg 3007 (CLB), Rm 113
[10.5pt] Hours: Monday - Friday 7:30am to 6:00pm
[10.5pt bold] Canvas LMS Technical Support
[10.5pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[10.5pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[10.5pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[10.5pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
[10.5pt] navigation menu.
[10.5pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] Learning Resources
[11.0pt bold] Texas A&M at Galveston
On-campus learning resources to support students in achieving excellence are available
through The Center for Academic Learning Support (tamug.edu/cals).
[16.0pt] College and Department Policies
[11.0pt bold] Additional University policies for the Galveston Campus
[11.0pt bold] Academic Integrity Statements and Policy
Texas A&M at Galveston
You can learn more about the Honor Council Rules and Procedures as well as your rights and
responsibilities, at tamug.edu/HonorSystem.
[11.0pt bold] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M at Galveston
Students who need someone to talk to can call (409) 740-4736 from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
weekdays or visit tamug.edu/counsel for more information. For 24-hour emergency
assistance during nights and weekends, contact the TAMUG Police Dept at (409) 740-4545.
24-hour emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.