<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Industrial and Systems Engineering
[16.0pt] ISEN 302 Syllabus
Section 503 (11195)
Economic Analysis of Engineering Projects
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 1:50PM
End Time: 2:40PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 344
Credit Hours:  2
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Annette Rodgers
Email:  amrodgers@tamu.edu
Office Location:  ETB 4040
Phone:  979-845-2358
Office Hours
[11.0pt bold] M & W by appointment/ Tue 10:00 am – 1:00 -   Zoom by appointment only
Preferred Contact Method
email
Biography
[12.0pt] Mrs. Rodgers is an experienced professional with 38 years in space operations,
[12.0pt] hardware design, and multidisciplinary engineering. I’ve trained astronauts and
[12.0pt] engineers for Space Shuttle and ISS operations, and served as a flight controller
[12.0pt] for payload operations. I spent 18 years as a liaison for the Japan Aerospace
[12.0pt] Exploration Agency (JAXA) to the ISS, managing scientific payloads and
[12.0pt] leading the installation of the Japanese Segment. As Vice President at JAMSS
[12.0pt] America, I oversaw operations, technical programs, and ISO 9001 certification.
[12.0pt] I’ve also managed NASA contracts for eVTOL technology development.
[12.0pt] Currently, I teach Engineering Economic Analysis as an Associate Professor of
[12.0pt] Practice at Texas A&M University.
Socials
N/A
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Economic Analysis of Engineering Projects. (2-0). Credit 2. Principles of economic
equivalence; time value of money; analysis of single and multiple investments;
comparison of alternatives; capital recovery and after-tax analysis of economic
projects. Prerequisites: Grade of C or better in MATH 152 or MATH 172; also taught
at Qatar campus.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
MATH 152 or MATH 172 and ability to use Microsoft Excel.
[13.0pt] Required math pre-requisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in MATH 152 or MATH 172; also
taught at Qatar campus.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Make engineering decisions based on an economic analysis of alternatives
Explain and demonstrate the principles of economic equivalence and time value of
money
Formulate and solve equations using interest factors and formulas
Distinguish between nominal and effective interest rates and convert between them
Identify and determine constituent cash flows of single and/or multiple investments
Examine, diagram, and compare investment alternatives on an economic basis using
appropriate terminology
Conclude and justify the best investment alternative(s) based on appropriate analysis
Develop and construct spreadsheet models to investigate alternatives
Determine and utilize appropriate capital recovery methods for alternatives
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Engineering Economic Analysis (14 th Edition)
ISBN:  9780190063467 e-version
Authors:  D. Newnan, T. G. Eschenbach, J. P. Lavelle, and N. Lewis (February 19,
2019)
Publisher:  Oxford University Press
Publication Date:  (February 19, 2019)
Edition:  14th Edition
URL for Resource:  https://www.vitalsource.com/products/engineering-economic-
analysis-don-newnan-ted-eschenbach-v9780190931940?term=9780190063467
Notes:
We have been notified that this textbook is no longer available in print version. However, the
edition is available with a new (ISBN: 9780190063467) as it is now included as a pack and
contains an access code. The option I recommend is to buy the digital version of the 14 th
edition, at the bookstore or anywhere you can find it at a lesser price. I am not aware of what
the bookstore charges for the book, but I am adding a link below where you may purchase it
for $49.99 if that price is better:
https://www.vitalsource.com/products/engineering-economic-analysis-don-newnan-ted-
eschenbach-v9780190931940?term=9780190063467
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Homework assignments are due on the due date posted on Canvas. Please submit all work
[11.0pt bold] through Canvas. You should submit your work on time.  Late submissions are penalized
[11.0pt bold] 10% per each late day and are only accepted on the week the work is due, after that, no
[11.0pt bold] late work will be accepted.  Please note that homework assignments have different value and
weight, so please do not assume they are all equal. In addition, there might be in-class
assignments / checking for understanding, short quizzes, in-class quizzes, three tests during
the semester, and one special assignment worth a test grade. There is NO FINAL for my
class. You will be given more information after the semester begins. No make-up
examinations will be allowed unless prior arrangements have been made, or if you have a
university accepted excuse. Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused
[11.0pt bold] absence is not considered “late” and is exempted from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ) ,
but this HAS to be pre-arranged with the professor .
The components of the course grade and their weights are as follows: Assignments, 20%;
Quizzes, 20%; Tests, 60%. The university letter grade policy is followed (>=90%: A; 80-
89%: B; 70 – 79%: C; 60 – 69%: D; below 60%: F.)
There will be no curve at the end of this semester, so please make sure you submit your work
on time!
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[11.0pt bold] The course website will be maintained through  http://canvas.tamu.edu/ .  This site will contain
announcements and other information concerning the course. In addition, it will be used to
distribute class materials (homework assignment, notes,) and grades. Check the website
regularly, I will send last minute information and communication through Canvas in the
[11.0pt bold] “ Announcements ” section of Canvas. Any information posted there will be as valid as if it was
mentioned in class.
It is expected that all work submitted in this class will be done individually. If you got any
help with homework, please cite that person in your write-up. For example, “I thank John
Smith for helping me solve this problem.” If you worked together with one or more other
people, then each of you should cite the other(s).
A major reason for taking this class is to prepare all engineering majors for the Fundamentals
of Engineering (FE) exam, as well as to prepare Industrial Engineering majors for other ISEN
courses. To this end, students are strongly encouraged to use calculators that are approved by
[11.0pt bold] NCEES for use on the FE. The NCEES website ( http://ncees.org/exams/calculator-policy/ )
provides a list of the current approved calculator brands and models.
[11.0pt bold] All exams are administered through Canvas using Respondus proctoring software. They
[11.0pt bold] will be closed-book/notes/smartphone. Calculator is allowed if needed. If you have
[11.0pt bold] requested special accommodations, you DO NOT need to schedule your test through the
[11.0pt bold] testing center. I will add any extra time as required. Please come speak to me if you have
[11.0pt bold] questions.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Time durations for the topics are tentative and depend on class responses.
Week 1 (01/12) Introduction / Ch. 1 Making Economic Decisions
[11.0pt bold] Week 2 (01/19)  MLK   Holiday (01/19- no school)
[11.0pt bold] (01/14) Ch. 2 Engineering Costs and Estimating
Week 3 (01/26) Ch. 2 Engineering Costs and Estimating
Week 4 (02/02) Ch. 3 Interest and Equivalence
[11.0pt bold] Week 5 (02/09) Ch. 4 Equivalence for Repeated Cash Flows
[11.0pt bold] Week 6 (02/16) Ch. 4 /Review  Exam. 1: Test Chapters 1 - 4 (02/18)
Week 7 (02/23) Ch. 5 Present Worth Analysis
Week 8 (03/02) Ch. 6 Annual Cash Flow Analysis
[11.0pt bold] Week 9 (03/09)  Spring Break - No school
Week 10 (03/16) Ch. 7 Rate of Return Analysis / ABET Assignment (Due 03/22)
[11.0pt bold] Week 11 (03/23) E xam. 2: Test Chapters 5 - 7 (03/23)  / Ch. 8 Choosing the Best Alternative
Week 12 (03/30) Ch. 9 Other Analysis Techniques / Chapter 11 Depreciation
Week 13 (04/06) Ch. 11 Depreciation
Week 14 (04/13) CH 12 Income taxes for Corporations
[11.0pt bold] Week 15 (04/20)  Exam. 3: Test Chapters 8 - 12 (04/20)
[11.0pt bold] Week 16 (04/27)    Special Topic / Last day of Class 4/27 (No testing allowed)
Week 17 (05/04) Finals Week
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[11.0pt bold] Outside of my office hours, you MUST set up an appointment.  If you would like to set up
a meeting, please email me 24 hours before the meeting time and provide a few times that
might work with your schedule. I will try to find a time that works for both. You should
prepare questions before we meet.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Intellectual honesty is vital to an academic community and for my fair evaluation of
your work. All work submitted in this course must be your own, completed in
accordance with the University’s academic regulations. You may not engage in
unauthorized collaboration or make use of ChatGPT or other AI composition
software.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
Attendance is mandatory.  Students enrolled in the online section are expected to
complete the weekly work at the same pace as the live sections, unless they have a
university approved excuse.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the  First Amendment.