<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 411 Syllabus
Section 502 (42397)
Design and Analysis of Algorithms
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 5:30PM
End Time: 6:45PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 350
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Samson Zhou
Email:  samsonzhou@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 424
Phone:  9794586242
Office Hours
TR 4-5 pm
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Design and Analysis of Algorithms. (3-0). Credit 3. Study of computer algorithms for
numeric and non-numeric problems; design paradigms; analysis of time and space
requirements of algorithms; correctness of algorithms; NP-completeness and
undecidability of problems. Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in CSCE 221 and
CSCE 222; junior or senior classification or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 221 and
CSCE 222/ECEN 222; junior or senior classification or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of the course, students will be able to:
Explain a variety of fundamental algorithms and algorithmic techniques
Select the most appropriate algorithm to solve a given problem
Analyze the correctness, runtime, and space complexity of an algorithm
Design new algorithms and modify existing ones using techniques discussed
in class
Recognize when a problem is likely intractable (has no efficient algorithm) and
be able to prove this by showing undecidability or NP-hardness
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Optional
Introduction to Algorithms, fourth edition
ISBN:  9780262367509
Authors:  Thomas H. Cormen, Charles E. Leiserson,
Ronald L. Rivest, Clifford Stein
Publisher:  MIT Press
Publication Date:  2022-04-05
URL for Resource:
https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?
direct=true&db=nlebk&AN=2932690&site=eds-
live&scope=site&authtype=shib&custid=s8516548&ebv=
EK&ppid=Page-__-1
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[12.9pt] Grading Policy
Participation 3%
Homework assignments 22%
Midterm 1 24%
Midterm 2 24%
Final exam 27%
The grading scale will be: A  ≥  90% > B  ≥  80% > C  ≥  70% > D  ≥  60% > F.
If the course average is slow, a slight upward curve may be applied. A downward
curve will not be applied (e.g., if a student has an 80% or above, this guarantees a
grade of B or better).
Your lowest homework assignment will be dropped. It is possible for different
homework sets to be worth different numbers of points (e.g., a homework graded
out of 100 points would contribute twice as much to your grade as a homework out
of 50 points). The homework that will be dropped at the end of the semester is the
homework which, when dropped, leads to the highest possible homework grade
among remaining homework sets.
[12.9pt] Attendance and participation
Attendance will be taken only indirectly via in-class polls. The participation grade can
be met by in-class participation (e.g., answering questions, presenting answers to in-
class activities, answering polling questions while in class), and out-of-class
engagement (e.g., coming to office hours, submitting intro video, completing the
syllabus quiz). Students are guaranteed to receive full credit for participation if they
satisfy one of the following two options:
(1) Passing the syllabus quiz assignment, uploading an intro video, plus participation
in in-class polls on 8 different days
OR
(2) Passing the syllabus quiz assignment, and participating in in-class polls on 15
different days.
In order to participate in an in-class poll, a student needs to be physically present in
the classroom and attending class on the day of the poll. Answering a poll while not
in class, or answering a poll on behalf of another student, are strictly forbidden and
will result in academic integrity violations.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[12.9pt] Late Work and Makeup Work Policy
Homework.  Homework assignments may be submitted up to 24 hours late with a
penalty of 25%. If it is submitted within 5 hours of the deadline, it will be graded
with a smaller penalty of 5% x (number of hours since deadline). Work submitted
more than 24 hours after the deadline will not be accepted. (Recall that your lowest
homework assignment will be dropped.)
Tests.  Students are expected to take exams at the scheduled times. In accordance
with TAMU policy, students with an acceptable excused absence (as defined by the
University) are entitled to a make-up exam, provided they notify the instructor as
soon as possible and supply formal verification (e.g., a doctor’s note).
Make-up exams will be administered at the instructor’s discretion and may differ in
format from the original exam.
The final exam may not be dropped under any circumstances. In addition, at most
one midterm exam may be excluded from grade calculations, and only in cases of
documented, excused absences. Students may not drop all exams.
When an exam is legitimately excluded, the final course grade will be computed
using the reweighted average of the remaining required assessments (including
other exams, homework, and quizzes).
In-class polls.  Polls are designed to be given frequently enough that it is easy to get
full participation credit even if a student has many excused absences throughout
the semester. If a student has so many excused absences that they are not able to
attend 15 class periods during the duration of the semester, then they have the
opportunity to try to achieve full credit for their participation grade by (a) providing
documentation for all absences (e.g., doctor’s notes) and (b) scheduling to take an
oral content comprehension exam at the end of the semester. Students interested
in trying to make up for missed polls by taking such an oral comprehension exam
should reach out directly to the professor.
[12.9pt] Homework policy
You are allowed, under a very specific set of guidelines, to consult outside sources
and discuss homework problems with other students. However, the write-up must
be entirely in your own words—copying is strictly prohibited and will result in
academic integrity violations. Additionally, if you receive any type of help from
outside resources or discuss problems with others, you are required to list all
resources and collaborators in your homework write-up (e.g., existing webpages,
textbooks, discussion with other students in the course or students outside the
course, etc.). Discussing problems includes both receiving help or giving help of any
kind. Posting homework questions or soliciting help in online sites or forums is
strictly prohibited. E.g., while reading an existing post about a similar problem is
okay, creating a new post asking for the answer to your question is not okay.
Most homework assignments will be submitted via Gradescope as a pdf. There will
be a link to access Gradescope via the Canvas course webpage. For assignments
submitted in Gradescope, it is very important to assign specific problem answers to
pages on Gradescope.  If pages are not properly assigned, the graders may not see
the solution and student will not receive credit for the problem.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Course Schedule
Tentative Schedule
This schedule is tentative and may change slightly during the semester. There
are roughly three units:
(1) High-level paradigms for design and analysis of algorithms
(2) Graph algorithms
(3) Complexity theory and optimization
Week
Date
Topic
1
Jan 12 – Jan 16    Divide and Conquer
2
Jan 19 – Jan 23    Dynamic Programming
3
Jan 26 – Jan 30    Greedy Algorithms
4
Feb 2 – Feb 6
Amortized Analysis
5
Feb 9 – Feb 13
Review &  Test 1
6
Feb 16 – Feb 20   Intro to Graph Algorithms, BFS
7
Feb 23 – Feb 27   Graph Algs: DFS
8
Mar 2 – Mar 6
Graph Algs: Minimum Spanning Trees
9
Mar 9 – Mar 13    Spring Break
10
Mar 16 – Mar
20
Graph Algs: Shortest Paths
11
Mar 23 – Mar
27
Graph Algs: Maximum s-t Flow
12
Mar 30 - Apr 3
Review &  Test 2
13
Apr 6 - Apr 10
Intro to P and NP
14
Apr 13 - Apr 17   NP-Completeness
15
Apr 20 - Apr 24   Linear Programming
[12.9pt] Exams
The midterm exams will be given in class. These are dates for the midterms:
Midterm 1: February 12 (Thursday)
Midterm 2: April 2 (Thursday)
The final exam will be held on Tuesday, May 5 from 3:30 pm-5:30 pm.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[16.5pt] University Policies
[12.9pt] Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[12.9pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. (See  Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[12.9pt] AI Statement
Restrictive:
This course assumes that all work submitted by students will be generated by the
students themselves. Students should not have another person/entity do the
writing of any substantive portion of an assignment for them, which includes hiring
a person or a company to write assignments and using artificial intelligence tools
like ChatGPT.
(adapted from University of Massachusetts Amherst,
https://cte.tamu.edu/getmedia/1d5e4ef6-97f1-4065-987f-3c9dfecbb7bd/TAMU-
CTE_GenAI-SyllabusStatementConsiderations.pdfOpen this document with
ReadSpeaker docReader )
Permissive:
Writing:  Use of AI tools, including ChatGPT, is permitted in this course for students
who wish to use them. To adhere to our scholarly values, students must
cite any AI-generated material that informed their work (this includes in-text
citations and/or use of quotations, and in your reference list). Using an AI tool to
generate content without proper attribution qualifies as academic dishonesty. See
https://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/qanda/data/faq/topics/Documentation/faq0
422.html
for information how to properly cite AI tools.
(adapted from University of Massachusetts Amherst,
https://cte.tamu.edu/getmedia/1d5e4ef6-97f1-4065-987f-3c9dfecbb7bd/TAMU-
CTE_GenAI-SyllabusStatementConsiderations.pdfOpen this document with
ReadSpeaker docReader )
Computer Code . In principle you may submit AI-generated code, or code that is
based on or derived from AI-generated code, as long as this use is properly
documented in the comments: you need to include the prompt and the significant
parts of the response. AI tools may help you avoid syntax errors, but there is no
guarantee that the generated code is correct. It is your responsibility to identify
errors in program logic through comprehensive, documented testing. Moreover,
generated code, even if syntactically correct, may have significant scope for
improvement, in particular regarding separation of concerns and avoiding
repetitions. The submission itself must meet our standards of attribution and
validation.
(from Boris Steipe (2023) “Syllabus Resources”. The Sentient Syllabus Project
http://sentientsyllabus.org )
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
Galveston Students:
Technology Services - Help Desk
[10.5pt] E-mail:  Helpdesk@tamug.edu
[10.5pt] Phone: 409-740-4714
[10.5pt] Location: Bldg 3007 (CLB), Rm 113
[10.5pt] Hours: Monday - Friday 7:30am to 6:00pm
[10.5pt bold] Canvas LMS Technical Support
[10.5pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[10.5pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[10.5pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[10.5pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
[10.5pt] navigation menu.
[10.5pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
[12.9pt] Attendance and participation
Attendance will be taken only indirectly via in-class polls. The participation grade can
be met by in-class participation (e.g., answering questions, presenting answers to in-
class activities, answering polling questions while in class), and out-of-class
engagement (e.g., coming to office hours, submitting intro video, completing the
syllabus quiz). Students are guaranteed to receive full credit for participation if they
satisfy one of the following two options:
(1) Passing the syllabus quiz assignment, uploading an intro video, plus participation
in in-class polls on 8 different days
OR
(2) Passing the syllabus quiz assignment, and participating in in-class polls on 15
different days.
In order to participate in an in-class poll, a student needs to be physically present in
the classroom and attending class on the day of the poll. Answering a poll while not
in class, or answering a poll on behalf of another student, are strictly forbidden and
will result in academic integrity violations.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Course Specific Makeup Work Policy
[12.9pt] Late Work and Makeup Work Policy
Homework.  Homework assignments may be submitted up to 24 hours late with a
penalty of 25%. If it is submitted within 5 hours of the deadline, it will be graded
with a smaller penalty of 5% x (number of hours since deadline). Work submitted
more than 24 hours after the deadline will not be accepted. (Recall that your lowest
homework assignment will be dropped.)
Tests.  No make-up tests will be given. If a student needs to be absent from class on
a test day due to an unavoidable and acceptable excused absence, that student
needs to get approval from the instructor in advance. The absence must be
acceptable as defined by TAMU’s policy and will require formal verification (e.g., a
doctor’s note). If any tests are missed, the final grade will be computed using the
weighted average of remaining assignments in the course (which includes other
tests, homework assignments, and quizzes).
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.