<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 312 Syllabus
Section 551 (46293)
Computer Organization
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 1:50PM
End Time: 2:40PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  OCSB 141
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: T
Start Time: 08:25AM
End Time: 09:15AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  PMEC 146
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 09:35AM
End Time: 10:25AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  MAIN 315
Credit Hours:  4
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Alpaslan Duysak
Email:  aduysak03@tamu.edu
Office Location:  SAGC 703
Phone:  (409) 740- 5513
Office Hours
4:00 PM-5:00 PM, Wednesday
Preferred Contact Method
email
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Computer Organization. (3-2). Credit 4. Computer systems from programmer's
perspective including simple logic design, data representation and processor
architecture, programming of processors, memory, control flow, input/output, and
performance measurements; hands-on lab assignments. Prerequisite: Grade of C
or better in CSCE 221, or concurrent enrollment.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
The course objective is to integrate key notions from algorithms, computer
architecture, compilers, and software engineering in one unified framework. This
will be done constructively, by building a general-purpose computer system from
the ground up. In the process, we will explore many ideas and techniques used in
the design of modern hardware and software systems and discuss major trade-offs
and future trends.
Throughout this journey, you will gain many cross-section views of the computing
field, from the bare-bone details of switching circuits to the high-level abstraction of
software design. The course consists of materials on the following topics:
introduction to computer systems, data representation, machine language,
processor architecture, memory hierarchy, and assembler.
Several laboratory assignments will provide hands-on experience in many of the
above topics.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 221, or concurrent
enrollment.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Perform Basic Logic Design
Understand the design of a simple computer system
Understand elements that make up a CPU (Central Processing Unit)
Design software with an understanding of how it will run on computers
Participate in discussions that involve impact of hardware and software
elements on each other and the performance of the program
Take intermediate and advanced classes in computer architecture, systems,
operating systems, cloud, parallel computing
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
The Elements of Computing Systems, second edition
ISBN:  9780262539807
Authors:  Noam Nisan, Shimon Schocken
Publisher:  MIT Press
Publication Date:  2021-06-15
Edition:  Second Edition
URL for Resource:  https://www.nand2tetris.org/
Notes:
The first half of the textbook is available free online. This
is what we cover in the course in addition to advanced
concepts that are covered from other sources. Printed
copies of the book may be available in Campus
Bookstore and other book suppliers like Amazon, Barnes
& Noble, MIT Press, etc. Purchase of course textbook is
NOT REQUIRED.
[16.0pt] Additional Instructional Materials
This Material is: Optional
Computer Systems: A Programmer's Perspective, Global
Edition
ISBN:  9781292101774
Authors:  Randal E. Bryant, David R. O'Hallaron
Publisher:  Pearson UK
Publication Date:  2019-07-12
Notes:
Purchase of the textbook is NOT REQUIRED.
This Material is: Required
Lecture Notes
Notes:
All the baseline course materials – lecture notes, book
chapters, simulators, software tools, tutorials, and test
programs – can be downloaded freely from the course
website  http://www.nand2tetris.org .
Your teaching staff will guide you through the early
phase of software installation and Do’s and Don’ts The
supplied software can run as is on Linux or Windows or
Mac OS. The lecture notes presented in class are
modified with the Instructor’s own thoughts and inputs
as deemed necessary
The hardware projects will be done using simple
hardware description language (HDL), which can be
learned in a few hours. It is covered in the Appendix in
our Textbook and will also be covered by the TAs in the
LAB. The resulting chips (as well as the topmost
computer-on-a-chip system) will be tested and simulated
on a supplied hardware simulator, running on the
student's computer. The software projects can be done
in Java, Python, or C++. Any exceptions to this will be
noted in the project documents
Canvas
Canvas will contain some of the class materials,
assignment descriptions, and grades. You can access the
course on Canvas through your Howdy portal.
Gradescope
Some assignments, such as LABs & Projects and exams,
will be graded on Gradescope, which offers better
options for submitting online and handling print exams
than Canvas. Your account will be automatically created,
which you can activate through the sidebar in Canvas
under “Gradescope.”
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[12.0pt] This class will use a standard A, B, C, etc. scale for final grades; depending on the
[12.0pt] distribution, a curve may be applied. The instructor reserves the right to raise grades
[12.0pt] near a borderline to the next highest letter, based largely on the student’s perceived
[12.0pt] effort and participation.
Table 1. Course Grading Breakdown and Weight Distribution
[11.0pt bold] Description
[11.0pt bold] Percentage
[11.0pt bold] Category
Projects (6)
Labs (20)
30%
20%
50% Projects & Labs
Quizzes (10)
10%
20%
20%
50% Exams
Midterms (2)
Final Exam
Table 2. Final Letter Grade Scale
[11.0pt bold] A
[11.0pt bold] B
[11.0pt bold] C
[11.0pt bold] D
[11.0pt bold] F
90 - 100%
80 - 89%
70 - 79%
60 - 69%
< 60%
[12.0pt] The class is primarily structured according to a formative approach, using a collection
[12.0pt] of activities worth comparatively few points that accumulate over the course of the
[12.0pt] semester.
[12.0pt bold] Assignments:
[12.0pt] Projects &Labs, (subject to change), There will be a total of 6 projects. All projects
[12.0pt] carry equal weight unless specified. There will be a total of 20 LAB assignments.
Table 3. Course Content Blocks and Project Release Schedule
BLOCK
TOPIC (PROJECT RELEASE)
1
Introduction and Setup, Boolean Algebra, Combinational Logic Design
(Project 1)
2
Combinational Logic Design, Boolean Arithmetic (Project 2), Sequential
Logic Design (Project 3)
3
Machine Language (Project 4)
4
CPU Architecture (Project 5), Assembler (Project 6)
5
Advanced Topics: Memory Hierarchy, Virtual Memory, Cache Memory
(Project 7, Optional)
[12.0pt bold] Exams:
[12.0pt] Two regular Exams and one Final Exam represent the summative portion of the
[12.0pt] course. Exams will be a combination of problem-solving, programming, and multiple-
[12.0pt] choice questions. There will be 10 Quizzes.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[12.0pt] If a project accepts late work, submissions received after the deadline will be subject
[12.0pt] to a late penalty, which will be computed based on the number of days late. The
[12.0pt] penalty will be 15% every day, up to 4 days. After 4 days, late work will receive no
[12.0pt] credit.
[12.0pt] Additionally, you have a pool of 10 late days that you can use to extend a project
[12.0pt] (max. 3 days per project). While the projects are organized so that you have plenty of
[12.0pt] time to complete them, late days give you extra flexibility to handle unforeseen
[12.0pt] circumstances according to your own judgment.
[12.0pt] To use a late day from your pool, you must notify your TA. Be sure to specify the
[12.0pt] affected project. You are responsible for tracking your own late days!
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Table 4. Weekly schedule
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Topic(s)
[11.0pt bold] 1
Course Introduction, Computer Organization and Architecture and
Digital vs. Analog Systems
LAB: software setup & introduction
[11.0pt bold] 2
Logic expressions, Boolean Algebra, Implementation (switch, logic
gates)
LAB1: Number Systems,
LAB2: Boolean Algebra/Logic Expressions
[11.0pt bold] 3
Combinational Logic Design, Computer Arithmetic (Binary addition
concept), and building blocks.
LAB3: Realizing Basic Logic Functions
LAB4: Simple application design
[11.0pt bold] 4
Computer Arithmetic, multi-bit and multi-input adders, 2s
complement, subtractors, and ALU
LAB5: End-to-End Combinational Logic Design
LAB6: End-to-End Combinational Logic Design
[11.0pt bold] Project 1:
[11.0pt bold] 5
Sequential design (notion of time and memory, basic element of
memory, modular memory implementation)
LAB7: Multi-Way and Multi-Bit MUX and DMUX
[11.0pt bold] Project 2:
[11.0pt bold] Exam 1:
[11.0pt bold] 6
Registers, ROM, RAM, State Machine
LAB8: Adders
LAB9: Multi-Bit ripple carry adder
[11.0pt bold] 7
Machine language (big picture), anatomy of a machine language
LAB10: Serial and Parallel Register
LAB11: ALU design
[11.0pt bold] 8
Machine language (HACK computer machine language), writing basic
HACK programs
[12.0pt] LAB12:   Multi-Bit Multi-entry RAM
LAB13: Multi-Bit Multi-entry RAM
[11.0pt bold] Project 3:
[11.0pt bold] 9
Writing basic HACK programs, Computer Architecture (basic
concepts)
[11.0pt bold] Project 4:
LAB14: Sequential Logic Design
[11.0pt bold] Exam 2:
[11.0pt bold] 10
Computer Architecture (Building the HACK computer)
LAB15: Assembly programming
LAB16: HACK CPU Datapath Design
[11.0pt bold] 11
Assembler
LAB17: HACK CPU Control path Design
LAB18: HACK Computer Design
[11.0pt bold] Project 5:
[11.0pt bold] 12
Memory, high-level concept
LAB19: Concept and Implementation
[11.0pt bold] 13
Memory (Cache memory design and policies)
LAB20: Overall construction of the HACK assembler
[11.0pt bold] Project 6:
[11.0pt bold] 14
Virtual memory (Basics &Advanced)
LAB21: Project Help Session
LAB22: Project help session
[11.0pt bold] 15
Virtual Machine
LAB 23: Cache-friendly matrix multiplication (Optional)
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[12.0pt] All changes in the schedule will be announced in class and on the class
[12.0pt] calendar/Canvas.
[12.0pt] Please see also the University Academic Calendar
[12.0pt] (https://registrar.tamu.edu/Academic-Calendar).
[12.0pt] Use Canvas, Gradescope, and course drive to get access to the lecture notes, quizzes,
[12.0pt] tests, and assignments, and check your grades regularly during the semester.
[12.0pt bold] Computer
[12.0pt] You are required to have a computing device on which you have permission to install
[12.0pt] software. Please contact the instructor if you do not have a computing device. Bring
[12.0pt] Your Own Device (BYOD) is an initiative in the College of Engineering where students
[12.0pt] are required to bring their own computing devices to class. The following link explains
[12.0pt] the program and provides information about approved devices:
[12.0pt] https://engineering.tamu.edu/easa/areas/academics/byod. Approved BYOD devices
[12.0pt] fulfill the requirements for this class, although many other devices are sufficient.
[12.0pt bold] Student Rules
[12.0pt] Each student has the responsibility to be fully acquainted with and to comply with the
[12.0pt] Texas A&M University Student Rules. More specific rules, information and procedures
[12.0pt] may be found in various publications pertaining to each particular service or
[12.0pt] department. For more information, please visit http://student-rules.tamu.edu/
[12.0pt] Individual programming MUST be done on your own. You must write assignments in
[12.0pt] your own words. Plagiarism will not be tolerated, and violations will be reported to
[12.0pt] the Honor Council.
[12.0pt] To help identify possible instances of plagiarism, we may use automated systems for
[12.0pt] plagiarism detection. Students found to have engaged in plagiarism will be referred to
[12.0pt] the Aggie Honor System.
[12.0pt] Collaboration is important for facilitating learning, and your peers can be a great
[12.0pt] resource. So you are encouraged to discuss problems and general approaches with
[12.0pt] each other (but not actual solutions). Regardless, unless stated otherwise, all
[12.0pt] assignments must be done on your own. It is okay to share general approaches,
[12.0pt] directions, and so on. You may not look at someone else’s code (online or in person).
[12.0pt] If you have an issue that needs clarification, contact an instructor or TA. Additional
[12.0pt] overriding instructions and grading policies on permitted collaboration may be
[12.0pt] provided in the project documents
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[12.0pt] The use of artificial intelligence (AI) tools, including code-generation and language-
[12.0pt] model systems, is permitted in this course only when explicitly allowed by the
[12.0pt] instructor. Students are responsible for ensuring that all submitted work reflects their
[12.0pt] own understanding and complies with Texas A&M University’s academic integrity
[12.0pt] standards. Unless otherwise stated, AI tools may not be used to generate complete
[12.0pt] solutions or replace independent reasoning. Any authorized use of AI must be clearly
[12.0pt] disclosed, and students remain fully accountable for the correctness, originality, and
[12.0pt] integrity of their work.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
Galveston Students:
Technology Services - Help Desk
[10.5pt] E-mail:  Helpdesk@tamug.edu
[10.5pt] Phone: 409-740-4714
[10.5pt] Location: Bldg 3007 (CLB), Rm 113
[10.5pt] Hours: Monday - Friday 7:30am to 6:00pm
[10.5pt bold] Canvas LMS Technical Support
[10.5pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[10.5pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[10.5pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[10.5pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
[10.5pt] navigation menu.
[10.5pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] Learning Resources
[12.0pt] Course materials, including lecture notes, simulators, software tools, and
[12.0pt] assignments, will be provided through Canvas and the course drive. The primary
[12.0pt] reference is The Elements of Computing Systems (Nisan & Schocken), with the first
[12.0pt] half available free online at nand2tetris.org. Students are expected to have access to a
[12.0pt] personal computer capable of running the required software.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
[12.0pt] Attendance is important in this class as a means to keep current with the material,
[12.0pt] especially in labs, so students are encouraged to attend.
[12.0pt] Lab attendance will be evaluated based on your being present in the lab and
[12.0pt] submitting the lab work.
[12.0pt] Class attendance will be based on in-class activities and quizzes.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Course Specific Makeup Work Policy
[12.0pt bold] Late Submissions:
[12.0pt] If a project accepts late work, submissions received after the deadline will be subject
[12.0pt] to a late penalty, which will be computed based on the number of days late. The
[12.0pt] penalty will be 15% every day, up to 4 days. After 4 days, late work will receive no
[12.0pt] credit.
[12.0pt] Additionally, you have a pool of 10 late days that you can use to extend a project
[12.0pt] (max. 3 days per project). While the projects are organized so that you have plenty of
[12.0pt] time to complete them, late days give you extra flexibility to handle unforeseen
[12.0pt] circumstances according to your own judgment.
[12.0pt] To use a late day from your pool, you must notify your TA. Be sure to specify the
[12.0pt] affected project. You are responsible for tracking your own late days!
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.