<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 482 Syllabus
Section 932 (37076)
Senior Capstone Design
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 3:55PM
End Time: 4:20PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  EABA 118
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 4:25PM
End Time: 6:55PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  EABA 118
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Pauline Wade
Email:  paulinewade@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 108
Phone:  979 458 0480
Office Hours
Thursday 10-11 am
Preferred Contact Method
Email
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Senior Capstone Design. (1-6). Credit 3. Development of system integration skills for
solving real-world problems in computer science; significant team software project
that uses integration of advanced concepts across computer science
specializations; projects require design, implementation, documentation and
demonstration, as well as design methodology, management process and
teamwork. Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in CSCE 411, and CSCE 315 or CSCE
331; senior classification; also taught at Galveston campus.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 411, and CSCE 315 or
CSCE 331; senior classification; also taught at Galveston campus.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Analyze a complex computing problem and apply principles of computing and other
relevant disciplines to identify solutions.
Design, implement and evaluate a computing-based solution to meet a given set of
computing requirements in the context of the program's discipline.
Communicate effectively in a variety of professional contexts.
Recognize professional responsibilities and make informed judgements in computing
practice based on legal and ethical principles.
Collaborate effectively as a member or leader of a team engaged in activities
appropriate to the program's discipline.
Apply computer science theory and software implementation fundamentals to
produce computing-based solutions.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
UCRT - University Required Oral Communication
[11.0pt bold] To receive C credit for this course, you must pass the C component, with the C course
[11.0pt bold] communication requirement below:
[11.0pt bold] A minimum of  35% of your final grade  is based on written and oral communication
assignments.
[11.0pt bold] Of this communication component,  at least 70% is based on individually written
[11.0pt bold] work and individual public speaking ; group work does not count toward this
standard.
[11.0pt bold] To receive C credit, students must pass both the written and public speaking
[11.0pt bold] components of the course.  Failure to pass either component will result in failing the
course, regardless of performance on other assignments.
[11.0pt bold] Each student will produce at least 1250 words of individually written work and
[11.0pt bold] deliver a minimum of 5 minutes of individual public speaking.
Assignments fulfilling this requirement include individual progress reports, project
proposals, final technical documentation, and individual presentations or
demonstrations.
Resumes and related materials are accepted only if specific to the major; take-home
essay exams may count if they allow drafting and revision. Oral presentation slides,
scripts, web sites, and posters count when accompanied by individual presentations.
[11.0pt bold] No more than  10% of the communication grade may be assessed by undergraduate aides ,
and all grading by aides is supervised by the instructor.
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Design for Electrical and Computer Engineers: Theory
Concepts and Practice
Authors:  Ralph Ford, Chris Coulston
Publisher:  Learning Solutions
Publication Date:  2005-03-31
This material Is: Recommended
The Five Dysfunctions of a Team
ISBN:  9781038707789
Authors:  Patrick M Lencioni
Publication Date:  2024-09-12
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
is course is governed by ABET (Accreditation Board for Engineering and
Technology), which provides assurance that a college or university program meets
the quality standards of the profession, by doing the following:
1.  Verifies that your educational experience meets the global standard  for
technical education in your profession.
2.  Enhances your employment opportunities —multinational corporations
require graduation from an accredited program.
3.  Supports your entry to a technical profession  through licensure,
registration, and certification—all of which often require graduation from an
ABET-accredited program as a minimum qualification.
4.  Establishes your eligibility  for federal student loans, grants, and/or
scholarships.
5.  Paves the way for you to work globally , because ABET accreditation is
recognized worldwide through international agreements, and other countries’
national accrediting systems are based on the ABET model.
To comply with ABET, students must demonstrate their abilities in outcomes above, which will
be evaluated by external industrial affiliate members during your final presentation.
[11.0pt bold] The final grade you will receive in the class will be  based on points accumulated  during the
semester. Thus, both continued progress (the process) and the quality of your product (and
other deliverables) will determine your grade. Your grade is based on the performance of your
team and your individual contribution.
The grading scale is as follows:
F < 60% ≤ D < 70% ≤ C < 80% ≤ B < 90% ≤ A
We do not curve in this class, however, provide you with the opportunity to earn an A, hence
an 89.9 is a B. We teach proficiency, which means that we have clear expectations in terms of
what you should complete and what knowledge you should have obtained by the end of the
course to succeed and to earn an A.
The grade distribution is as follows:
[11.0pt bold] 1.  Professional Responsibility  5%
[11.0pt bold] 2.  Project Management  10%
[11.0pt bold] 3.  Project Implementation  15%
[11.0pt bold] 4.  Project Evaluation   20%
[11.0pt bold] 5.  Project Documentation  20%
[11.0pt bold] 6.  Project Presentation   20%
[11.0pt bold] 7.  Quizzes  10%
[11.0pt bold] -----------------------------------------------
[11.0pt bold] TOTAL   100%
You will not receive a passing grade in the class if you do not have a tested working
system by the due date. The lower-weight items will significantly help you succeed in
your higher-weighted items.
Your peer feedback responses will be calculated with the instructors’ assessment
which can either increase / decrease each member’s overall semester score.
Instructors will base their assessment on one or more of the following: class
attendance, punctuality, participation during class, timely submission of
assignments/deliverables, peer feedback results, other informal feedback from
teammates or TAs, and other actions which positively/negatively contribute to the
success of the team.
Any team member who does not participate, after interventions have been attempted,
will automatically get at least 1 letter grade below the lowest grade of any of the team
members
To complete the course and receive a grade for the class, students are required to do
the following:
All final deliverables must be submitted and approved by the teaching team, borrowed
items (e.g., keys, books, equipment) returned to their proper location or to their
owner, and work areas cleaned. All team members are required to be present at the
time of the final delivery.
Participate in either a project presentation or an exit interview with industry
practitioners as part of the ABET review. If the course section is selected to be
reviewed as part of the capstone project review the section’s students are excused
from participating in the exit interviews.
Complete the assigned ethics related assignments.
[11.0pt bold] Written and oral communication assignments constitute  at least 35% of the total
[11.0pt bold] course grade , with  no less than 70% of this graded individually . Students must
successfully complete and pass both written and oral assignments to pass the course.
These components will be explicitly identified in the assignment schedule and rubric.
[12.0pt] 1. Professional Responsibility (5%)
This category consists of feedback on peers’ performance in the project and ethics
knowledge, specifically completion of the assigned ethics assignment.
You will give feedback on the performance and contribution of your other team members
several times throughout the semester. Prompt submission of peer feedback will be the basis
of this grade. NOTE: The instructor team has the right to withhold credit for submission of
peer feedback, due to late submission, 3 days after the due date, unless you have prior
approval for late submission.
Failure to submit your peer feedback for all your fellow team members after two reminders
will result in an automatic 5% deduction of the overall grade. This policy is in place to ensure
timely distribution of valuable peer feedback and cannot be reversed once the grades are
posted in Canvas.
[11.0pt bold] Regardless of whether you get credit or not, your  final grade cannot be finalized until you
[11.0pt bold] complete all your peer feedback.
[12.0pt] 2. Project Management (10%)
Artifacts
These represent submissions that are required during project initiation, such as skills survey,
resume, and other items required in Canvas.
Group Updates, Individual Updates
Each team submits a weekly report as a group and individually, using the given templates. The
group reports communicate the team’s accomplishments during the previous period, which
need to be measurable, and planned accomplishments for the following week.
Reports
These represent project management related reports.
Other deliverables
You are expected to choose a software engineering process model and create the
corresponding artifacts. For example, if the team chooses to use Agile Scrum, then expected
artifacts are sprint & product backlogs, user stories, etc.
Depending on the project, project artifacts to be submitted include (but not limited to):
a. Data: Test data, initial seed data, etc.
b. Designs: schematics, data sheets, etc.
c. Tools: freeware software tools, compilers, etc.
d. Documentation: project related documents you are asked to submit
e. Evaluation: evaluation related documents you are asked to submit
f. Audiovisual media: close-up pictures of your system, raw footage, etc.
g. Evidence of live presentations given (e.g., program, acknowledgement letters,
etc.)
h. Spare parts and supplies
i. Installed final application on one or more devices
j. Invoices / Receipts / Forms: See next section on Purchases &
Reimbursements
Purchases and Reimbursements
1.  Accurate Forms:  Please ensure that purchase order (PO) forms submitted to the
department are accurate and complete (e.g., specifications). Submitting an
incomplete PO will result in the team being prevented from submitting additional
POs; all additional purchases will have to be made by team members who will be
reimbursed.
2.  In-Stock Items:  Please verify that items are in stock before submitting a PO and
provide alternative vendors if an item is likely to go out of stock (e.g., if the vendor
only has a few units left). If you suspect that a critical item may become
backordered, it may be better if you purchase it directly since POs may take
several days to go through.
3.  Reimbursements Deadline:  Reimbursement requests are due at the time of
final deliverables. To minimize overhead, we will only reimburse up to five
purchase orders (of your choice); this policy also encourages teams to plan their
purchases in advance. Overnight or express delivery will not be reimbursed
unless approved in advance by the instructor. Reimbursement of sales taxes is
not allowed by the university; please make sure to bring tax-exempt forms with
you whenever you make local purchases (or purchases within the state).
4.  Equipment Return:  The equipment and materials (e.g., keys, books, equipment)
that you purchased or borrowed do not belong to you, they belong to Texas A&M
University, hence they need to be returned to their proper location, to
their owner, or to the instructor team.
Lastly, we expect that the facilities used by the project team have been restored to an
acceptable condition as confirmed by the instructor team.
NOTE: Grades will not be assigned until all project deliverables have been turned in or
completed. All team members are required to participate in making sure deliverables are
completed and delivered.
[12.0pt] 3.  Project Implementation (15%)
Code (with corresponding documentation) will be submitted in the class GitHub repository,
Version Control
These represent the set-up of your version control system and regular commits to your
repository.
Code/Result & Documentation
Documentation (e.g., GitHub Readme) and code will be critiqued on its compliance with
requirements, correctness in proper execution, and maintainability as indicated by the effort
needed to understand the details of your system, by people external to the team.
[12.0pt] 4. Project Evaluation (20%)
Internal Testing
You are expected to assess that the expected deliverables of the project meet implicit and
explicit (e.g., functionality) requirements. Expectations include developing automated test
suites and multi-phase testing (unit / integration / system testing). The definition of success is
related to how well you prepared and implemented your evaluation plan to meet your team’s
quality goals (e.g., test coverage). You are expected to submit your test results to get credit.
User Acceptance Testing Results: at least twenty participants (see the instructor if you have
circumstances that warrant having less than twenty)
This evaluates how well you prepared and executed the user acceptance test, including
submission of the user acceptance test results. Note that your grade cannot be finalized
unless completion of user acceptance test.
** If you intend to publish your results, you will need to complete an IRB (ask instructor for
guidance)
[12.0pt] 5. Project Documentation (20%)
To fulfill the communication requirement of the class, each team is required to submit
documentation with some of the key documents described below.
Individual Proposal (for student proposed projects)
Each student will look for a problem or need of a real customer or beneficiary and develop a
problem proposal for discussion with the bigger group. Thereafter, a set of viable problems
will be presented to the class as candidates for capstone projects. Reviews from your
classmates on your proposals will help define the final project idea. Likewise, you will review
your classmates’ work to help refine their ideas and potentially find teammates with similar
interests. Note: Identification of a ‘real’ beneficiary is required.
Problem Exploration and Discussion
Scenario 1 – projects with sponsors: You will describe your approach to the given problem
statement, get your work reviewed by your peers, and optionally give a review on your
classmates’ work. When the team is formed, all proposed approaches are synthesized and
become part of the final report.
Scenario 2 – projects with no sponsors, just an external beneficiary: You will iterate through
potential project ideas which have a proven need / existing beneficiary and explore your
chosen project idea further.
Final Report
An overview of content in your final report is covered below. The final report will be written
incrementally throughout the semester with submission of two intermediate increments,
prior to submission of the final version. Your final report will be evaluated on its thoroughness
and effectiveness in communicating key aspects of your system. Part of the grade is your
review of your peers’ deliverables.
Abstract & Introduction
This is a summary of your final report that describes: your problem (with attention
grabber), how you plan to solve it, and expected outcome.
The introduction provides a brief overview of the project and helps the reader put
into context the design and implementation.
References / Related Work
To ensure that you have a strong understanding of existing relevant work you will
perform a literature review of related work to your team project. Each team member
is expected to identify a minimum number of relevant papers (details to be
announced during class) for their project to be referenced in their final report. These
papers will be different for each team member (e.g., a team of four with 5 references
each will have twenty papers to reference in their final report). Related work refers to
each person reading two papers and writing a reading summary on those two papers.
Engineering Standard
Engineering standards are factors that are related to your project and may bound or
constrain your project. Ethical concerns are included here.
Requirements
The requirements part of your methodology should clearly describe what your
solution seeks to achieve and what the user experience will be. You should describe
your minimum viable product, and any additional features required.
You may express requirements as narrative, feature lists, user stories, usage
scenarios, models, prototypes, etc.
User stories provide a high-level description of one or more features from the
perspective of an end user and make up your product backlog. Usage scenarios is the
equivalent of user stories in a non-agile process model.
Prototyping allows you to describe mockups you developed to demonstrate what
your solution will look like.
Design
The design part of your methodology should clearly describe how you will implement
your proposed solution, what the user experience will be, what tools you will use,
and the risks you anticipate.
Evaluation
The evaluation section describes procedures that you will use to assess that your
system does what it was designed to do.
Implementation, Results, Discussion
The implementation part of your methodology describes your system in detail
including individual components, tools used, your system hierarchy, and any other
details for the audience to understand how your system works.
The results section will summarize the outcome of your project and your evaluation
to show whether you achieved your definition of success.
The discussion section includes a reflection on the results.
Future Work, Conclusion, Annexes
Future work describes new opportunities and any lingering challenges that can be
undertaken in a future project.
The conclusion is a summary of your project with emphasis on the outcomes.
Annexes will contain the project plan, user manual, and additional information which
supports other sections of the final report, such as user stories which support the
requirements section, design models which support the design section, test cases
which support the evaluation section, and so forth.
[12.0pt] 6. Presentations (20%)
Checkpoints & Demo of System Progress,
External presentations (e.g., COE Project Showcase, CSCE Showcase)
Checkpoints refer to informal presentations on specific deliverables with the purpose of
assessing progress. Additionally, your team will present at a minimum of two other external
venues, the COE Project Showcase and CSCE Showcase. There may be other opportunities
presented in class which will provide you with extra practice in communicating your work and
responding to external reviews.
Posters, Presentation Slides & In-Class Presentation; Project Review-Industry
These opportunities allow you to communicate and demonstrate your deliverables (e.g.,
software) to your instructors, peers, and to industry panelists.
Demo Video & Appearance Release
The demo video is a 2-to-3-minute video which future generations of students can view as
they also embark on their capstone journey. Appearance release indicates your permission for
us to share the video and other artifacts which may have a picture / video of you.
Part of the grade is your reviews of your peers’ deliverables.
[12.0pt] 7. Quizzes (10%)
The quizzes will evaluate students’ review of any preparatory materials which help ensure
that students have reviewed them and are prepared for class.
Any item in this category are expected to be done in class, otherwise taking this outside of
class may constitute an honors violation, as determined by the honors council.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late work policy is defined as submission of work after the established deadline, not including
work submitted late due to an excused absence. Late work approvals must clearly link to an
excused absence request per  Student Rule 7 .
Late assignments cannot be accepted for credit, without a valid reason.
If you feel that you have a valid reason for submitting late work, even if it is not related to
Student Rule 7, submit a request to excuse the late submission (via a link to be provided) in
advance of the deadline (3 business days in advance is required, except in an emergency). We
will carefully review your request and will either approve or disapprove the request (with
fairness and equity in mind) if the request has been submitted in a timely manner.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Below is an overview of the overall schedule, subject to change. Refer to Canvas for the most
up-to-date schedule.
Course Schedule
[11.0pt bold] Week(s)
[11.0pt bold] Topics / Activities
1-4
Introduction to Senior Capstone Design:
Identify and formulate an engineering problem, how to function
effectively in teams, how your project fits in the context of other
work, how to communicate the motivation, need, and ethical
considerations for the system, needs & requirements identification
and how to define success in the project, project management.
Assessment: Iterative progress on project management & other
deliverables
5-7
Project Design, Implementation, & Evaluation
Deriving a design based on needs and requirements identification
How to create an evaluation plan according to the team’s definition
of success.
Skill development in preparation for implementation
Assessment: Iterative progress on project management,
documentation, implementation, evaluation (e.g., testing), & other
deliverables
8-11
Project Implementation & Evaluation
Communicate the user interface design and design choices
Continue implementation & evaluation, including testing & reviews
Conduct user acceptance test to evaluate the success of their
system.
Assessment: Iterative progress on project management,
documentation, implementation, evaluation (e.g., testing), & other
deliverables
12-14
Project Implementation, Evaluation, & Presentations
Complete user acceptance test to evaluate the success of their
system.
Determine results and their implications.
Assessment: Iterative progress on project management,
documentation, implementation, evaluation (e.g., testing), in-class &
external demonstrations, & other deliverables
15
Finalize project implementation, presentations, and deliverable
submission
Capstone project review with industry (if selected) or exit interviews
with industry
Final Assessment: Iterative progress on project management,
documentation, implementation, evaluation (e.g., testing), in-class &
external demonstrations, & other deliverables
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[12.0pt] Course Expectations
Course expectations, in the form of a course appreciative agreement, will be reviewed and
agreed to in the first 2 weeks of class.
[11.0pt bold] The course provides  direct instruction in writing and public speaking  through lectures,
workshops, peer review, assignment models, and opportunities for practice and revision.
[11.0pt bold] Formative feedback  will be given on both writing and speaking assignments prior to final
grading, and students are expected to revise and improve major submissions and
presentations in response to instructor and peer evaluations.
[13.0pt] Course Copyright
The materials used within this course are copyrighted and include, but are not limited to, the
syllabi, quizzes, exams, homework, online handouts, course videos, audio, and visual
recordings of classes, etc. Because these materials are copyrighted, you do not have the right
to copy or distribute these materials, unless permission is explicitly granted.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Writing: Use of AI tools, including ChatGPT, is permitted in this course for students who wish to
use them. To adhere to our scholarly values, students must cite any AI-generated material that
informed their work (this includes in-text citations and/or use of quotations, and in your
reference list). Using an AI tool to generate content without proper attribution qualifies as
academic dishonesty.
See  https://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/qanda/data/faq/topics/Documentation/faq0422.
html  for information how to properly cite AI tools. (adapted from University of Massachusetts
Amherst,  https://cte.tamu.edu/getmedia/1d5e4ef6-97f1-4065-987f-3c9dfecbb7bd/TAMU-
CTE_GenAI-SyllabusStatementConsiderations.pdf )
Computer Code. In principle you may submit AI-generated code, or code that is based on or
derived from AI-generated code, as long as this use is properly documented in the comments:
you need to include the prompt and the significant parts of the response. AI tools may help
you avoid syntax errors, but there is no guarantee that the generated code is correct. It is your
responsibility to identify errors in program logic through comprehensive, documented testing.
Moreover, generated code, even if syntactically correct, may have significant scope for
improvement, in particular regarding separation of concerns and avoiding repetitions. The
submission itself must meet our standards of attribution and validation.(from Boris Steipe
(2023) “Syllabus Resources”. The Sentient Syllabus Project  http://sentientsyllabus.org  .)
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
Galveston Students:
Technology Services - Help Desk
[10.5pt] E-mail:  Helpdesk@tamug.edu
[10.5pt] Phone: 409-740-4714
[10.5pt] Location: Bldg 3007 (CLB), Rm 113
[10.5pt] Hours: Monday - Friday 7:30am to 6:00pm
[10.5pt bold] Canvas LMS Technical Support
[10.5pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[10.5pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[10.5pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[10.5pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
[10.5pt] navigation menu.
[10.5pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
[11.0pt bold] Attendance is important.  Not attending weekly class meetings harms the other members of
your group and makes it much more difficult for the instructor to assess your contributions to
the group effort. Due to the undue burden your frequent absences have on the rest of the
[11.0pt bold] team,  more than five unexcused absences are an automatic failure .
The instructors will evaluate your attendance through frequent quizzes, meetings,
participation in the discussions, participation in assignments, and/or contributions to the
team. Upon instructors’ discretion, arriving to class late (> 5 minutes late), leaving early (> 5
minutes before class end), and/or not participating (e.g., not taking a quiz, not being present
for a status meeting, not submitting in class work, and/or doing work not related to the class)
can be considered an unexcused absence, depending on the circumstances. Oversleeping, a
term paper due, an exam to cram for, etc., are not valid reasons. The instructor reserves the
right to determine what constitutes a “valid reason” on a case-by-case basis.
Absence / lateness during days in which teams may need to work in a remote location to
accomplish certain assignments (e.g., presenting your work outside of class, interviewing
experts, meeting with mentors, accessing technologies outside of the classroom, etc.) count
toward the 5 unexcused absences, unless the absence / lateness are approved by the
instructor in advance. Students are expected to meet instructor’s requirements for check in,
activity reporting requirements, and/or timely submission of-class assignments.
You are responsible for monitoring / tracking your unexcused absences.
Students experiencing personal injury or illness that is too severe for the student to attend
class qualify for an excused absence (see  Student Rule 7, Section 7.2.2 ) assuming that
documentation and notification guidelines are followed.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.