<!-- body_font:10.5pt -->
[23.5pt] College of Engineering
[15.6pt] Industrial and Systems Engineering
[15.6pt] ISEN 665 Syllabus
Section 700 (59602)
Management of Engineering Systems
Spring 2026 - College Station
[15.6pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days:
Start Time: N/A
End Time: N/A
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ONLINE ONLINE
Credit Hours:  3
[15.6pt] Instructor Details
Michael Graul, PhD PE
Email:  mgraul@tamu.edu
Office Location:  ETB 4017; ZACH 403D
Phone:  979-575-7162
Office Hours
Via zoom:  F 4-5p; SU 4-5p
Link:   https://tamu.zoom.us/j/93939680794?
pwd=3ZRBzQraKRM3AgzpzYf0Qi2s2EpjMu.1
Preferred Contact Method
mgraul@tamu.edu
[15.6pt] Catalog Description
Management of Engineering Systems. (3-0). Credit 3. Theory and practice of
leadership and management in engineering organizations; focus on both “hard” skills
(systems engineering process, project management, planning, forecasting and
financial analysis) and “soft” skills (leadership styles, motivation, teamwork, managing
creative people, navigating informal networks); science and technology policy,
economic implications of engineering and technology. Prerequisite: Graduate
classification. Cross-listed with SYEN 645.
[15.6pt] Additional Course Details
[10.7pt bold] NB: Lecture simulcast for section 700:   https://tamu.zoom.us/j/99872586429?
pwd=5avC5LQThxhMfHqvL4k8GUEZ7Blckl.1
ISEN 665 prepares the engineer for the effective management of complex system efforts. The
scope is the system lifecycle – the system itself may be technologically based or socio-technical in
nature. A system is a set of elements so arranged as to produce (desired) functions and
behaviors. Production systems, as a class of systems, represent one of the more complex system
types to manage effectively due to its socio-technical nature and the interdependencies,
uncertainties, and often conflicting goals of its elements. Depending on the magnitude of the
system being managed – effective management may necessitate the need to apportion the
system into logical groupings to simplify the application of the core management functions
(planning, organizing, controlling). The course covers this apportionment of a system into
projects, thrust areas, and programs in order to facilitate its management. Additionally, the
socio-technical nature of complex (production) systems requires emphasis on managerial
cybernetics and organization system design – and their relationship to common issues associated
with large system definition, implementation, execution, and sustainment.
Complex systems defy simple representation. Thus, the manager must be adept at
conceptualizing the facets of the system being managed and controlled. Over the course of the
last several decades there have been numerous, well-intentioned attempts, to define a single,
holistic architecture that represents the *thing* being managed. No success to date. Therefore,
the manager must be attuned to, and minimally competent in, the use of several prescriptive and
descriptive methods and techniques that collectively proxy for the *thing* being managed.
Models and conceptualizations are endemic to the management of complex systems.
This course is a fusion of the core functions of the engineering manager enabled through a set of
skills that foster technical communication among engineers, technologists, technicians, and
business professionals.
ISEN 665 works equally well as both a gateway course into engineering systems management
and also as a capstone course for the application of the core functions and skills endemic to the
engineering systems manager.
[15.6pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Graduate classification. Cross Listing:
SYEN 645/ISEN 665.
[15.6pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
1.  Define, identify, and apply knowledge of management functions (leading,
planning, organizing, and controlling) and contemporary support tools
and practices (project management, earned value management, critical
chain project management, etc.) to the life-cycle management of
engineered systems
2.  To apply modern planning techniques for management of complex
system, technology projects
3.  To apply organizational techniques to the effective management of
technology projects
4.  To apply management control techniques to the effective management of
technology projects
5.  To apply decision making techniques to the effective management of
technology projects
6.  To define and apply knowledge of management functions to the life-cycle
of technology programs
7.  An ability to manage multi-role teams
8.  An ability to communicate project status information effectively
9.  An ability to establish a cogent technical argument that characterizes the
problem definition, needs analysis, and requirements definition for a
complex engineering system problem
[15.6pt] Special Course Designation
None
[15.6pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Managing Engineering and Technology.
Authors:  Morse, Schell, and Babcock
Publisher:  Pearson
Publication Date:  2020
Edition:  7th Edition
Notes:
[10.7pt bold] Recommended :
System Engineering Management, 5 th  Edition by Blanchard and Blyler. Wiley 2016. NB: this book
is available for checkout online through the TAMU library system.
During the semester I will also identify readings from a variety of sources (papers, texts, etc.)
and make those known to you through the class notes. All sources and resources leveraged by
me in the development and execution of this course will be identified to you for your own study.
Course notes will be uploaded prior to class; announcement, modifications to the course
schedule and/or topical refinements will be maintained in the course notes.
[15.6pt] Grading Policy
The content of this course material must be internalized by you to be of ultimate value in your
own professional career. The approach that I will use to help you internalize the knowledge of
management techniques applied to engineered systems is simple: Recitation + Application +
Enriched Repetition. I will use the quizzes as a way to ensure you have initiated this learning
process and we will then use homework exercises and project work to help you fully internalize
the concepts of the course.
[10.7pt bold] Quizzes [20%]  – An announced quiz will be given weekly; a time window will be identified for
initiating the quiz along with a time available for its completion once initiated.
[10.7pt bold] Homework [20%]  – there will be several small, design, modeling, and analysis exercises assigned
throughout the semester. These exercises will be used to drive home key principles and
practices of engineering system management. Each HW assignment will make clear whether it is
individual or team based. To the extent possible they will be related to or coordinated with your
semester project so as to serve as either exemplar or draft artifacts in your project design.
[10.7pt bold] Midterm exam [30%]  – a take-home exam will provide an assessment covering the core
principles and practices of the engineering management corpus. The midterm is designed to
ensure competency with core elements of ESM prior to the group work requirements of the
project.
[10.7pt bold] Project Work [30%]  - Additionally I will assign a small team-based project later in the semester
that will pull together concepts from the 665 corpus and homework but will be focused on the
management of a technology or production system effort. Topics: TBA.
[10.7pt bold] Final grades will be assigned as follows:
[10.7pt bold] A: {100 ≥ x ≥ 90}, B: {90 > x ≥ 80}, C: {80 > x ≥ 70}, D: {70 > x ≥ 60}, F: {60 > x}
[10.7pt bold] NB: ALL course quizzes, HW assignments, projects, and exams will be completed using
[10.7pt bold] Canvas. The midterm exam is a “take-home” (dates identified in the schedule) and as such
[10.7pt bold] will be entered in Canvas as an “assignment” with an inviolable due date identified. Standard
[10.7pt bold] submission assessments using applications such as “Turnitin” will be in use for all student
[10.7pt bold] files uploaded to Canvas.
[15.6pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[15.6pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late quizzes are not accepted. Quizzes will be timed within a “window” within which to start and
complete the quiz. For example, I may assign a 30min timed quiz and open the window to take
the quiz on Friday at 5p and close that window on Sunday at 11:59p. Thus, you would have
30min to complete the quiz once you initiate the quiz. This not a typing contest – the quiz time
will be padded with time to download/upload your solutions.
Late homework policy: late homework can be submitted after the deadline but loses 20% of its
value; no HW will be accepted after the grader uploads the comments and scores without prior
permission due to extenuating circumstances. Your grade and comments regarding the
homework will be made available through canvas. Other issues associated with can be resolved
through application of  Student Rule 7.
[10.7pt bold] NB: Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not considered
[10.7pt bold] late work and is exempted from the late work policy (Student Rule 7).
Instructions for the mid-term and project submissions will be supplied later in the semester.
NB: it is important to submit the assignments on time or within the submission window. Canvas
identifies the exact time at which uploads were made and further when access of any type was
made to the Canvas site. Please make sure that you have a stable connection when making
submissions. Canvas is the system of record. Emailing me or the TA the submissions does not
constitute a submission since Canvas will not have recorded the submission. All of the course
work is to be submitted through Canvas.
[15.6pt] Course Schedule
I will provide a more detailed description of the material for each week/class in the lecture
notes.
Engineering management is a blend of principle and practice applied to complex technological
systems. The type and scope of the system being managed can vary widely as can the phase of
life-cycle that the system is identified with. Structural definitions and constructs adopted for
organizational clarity can often belie the integrated and complex nature of the system being
managed. Systems engineering provides a compendium of methods and models to represent
and characterize the complex nature of systems and their interdependencies. The course is
architected to expose the students to the knowledge, skills, and experiences (KSEs) of
management applied to engineering systems. The semester project provides the experiential
component, the text and state of the practice readings provide the knowledge, and classroom
exercises, management tools, and homework provide the backbone for the skills dimension.
Topical outline
Class
Lecture
Reading
Supplemental
Reading
HW
QuizExamProjectComments
[10.7pt bold] Class
[10.7pt bold] Lecture
EMf -
Engineering
Management
function
EMs -
Engineering
Management
skill
EMa -
Engineering
Management
application
[10.7pt bold] Text:
[10.7pt bold] Managing
[10.7pt bold] Engineering
[10.7pt bold] and
[10.7pt bold] Technology
[10.7pt bold] (MEAT)
[10.7pt bold] 7th
[10.7pt bold] edition
[10.7pt bold] Supplemental
[10.7pt bold] reading
[10.7pt bold] (in addition to
[10.7pt bold] the notes)
[10.7pt bold] Homework
[10.7pt bold] 20%
[10.7pt bold] Quiz
[10.7pt bold] 20%
[10.7pt bold] Exam
[10.7pt bold] 30%
[10.7pt bold] Project
[10.7pt bold] 30%
[10.7pt bold] Comments
[10.7pt bold] 1
[10.7pt bold] (12JAN)
Introduction to
Management
of Engineering
Systems
ch.1-2
Q1
EMf: Leading
ch.3
[10.7pt bold] MLK day holiday - no class 19JAN
[10.7pt bold] 2
[10.7pt bold] (26JAN)
EMf: Planning
ch.4
HW1
Q2
EMs: IDEF0
modeling
(concepting the
system)
IDEF0 Method
Report
[10.7pt bold] 3 (2FEB)
EMf:
Forecasting
(quantitative)
ch.4
Monks - OM
HW2
Q3
EMf:
Forecasting
(qualitative)
ch.4
Monks - OM
[10.7pt bold] 4 (9FEB)
EMf: Decision
making
(determinisitic)
ch.5
Monks - OM
HW3
Q4
EMf: Decision
making
(stochastic)
ch.5
Monks - OM
Class
Lecture
Reading
Supplemental
Reading
HW
QuizExamProjectComments
[10.7pt bold] 5
[10.7pt bold] (16FEB)
EMs: SysML
(concepting the
system)
HBK of SE and
Management
HW4
Q5
EMs: MBSE
(system
synthetic)
HBK of SE and
Management
MBSE -
Model-Based
Systems
Engineering
[10.7pt bold] 6
[10.7pt bold] (23FEB)
EMs: Systems
Dynamics
Modeling
Sterman
HW5
Q6
MFLT-
Simulators for
EM proficiency
Judea Pearl
[10.7pt bold] 7
[10.7pt bold] (2MAR)
EMs: Bias and
Noise
Bias and Noise
Kahneman
HW6
Q7
EMs: Bias and
Noise
Bias and Noise
Kahneman
[10.7pt bold] Spring break - no class 9-13MAR
[10.7pt bold] 8
[10.7pt bold] (16MAR)
EMf:
Organizing
ch.6-7
MCS literature
HW7
Q8
MCS -
Management
Control
Systems
EMf:
Controlling
ch.8
MCS literature
MCS -
Management
Control
Systems
[10.7pt bold] 9
[10.7pt bold] (23MAR)
EMa: R&D
management
ch.9-10
*** TBD ***
HW8
Q9
EMa:
Production and
service System
management
ch.11-13
[10.7pt bold] 10
[10.7pt bold] (30MAR)
EMa: AI-Basics
[10.7pt bold] 30-
[10.7pt bold] Mar
[10.7pt bold] Midterm
[10.7pt bold] distributed
EMa: AI-
Enabled
Management
Class
Lecture
Reading
Supplemental
Reading
HW
QuizExamProjectComments
[10.7pt bold] 11
[10.7pt bold] (6APR)
EMs: Labor
relations
Collective
bargaining
literature TBA
Project
HW1
[10.7pt bold] 7-Apr   8-Apr
[10.7pt bold] Midterm
[10.7pt bold] due;
[10.7pt bold] Team Project
[10.7pt bold] released
EMfs: Project
management –
I; CPM and
PERT
ch.14-15
PM for
Engineering…
(Nicholas)
[10.7pt bold] 12
[10.7pt bold] (13APR)
EMfs: Project
management –
II; CCPM
PM for
Engineering…
(Nicholas)
Project
HW2
Q10
EMfs: Project
management –
III; controls
PM for
Engineering…
(Nicholas)
[10.7pt bold] 13
[10.7pt bold] (20APR)
EMfs: Project
management –
III; Agile
PM for
Engineering…
(Nicholas)
Project
HW3
Q11
EMfs: Systems
engineering
management –
I (NARD)
SE and
Management
(Blanchard/Blyler)
SE demystified
(Holt)
[10.7pt bold] 14
[10.7pt bold] (27APR)
EMfs: Systems
engineering
management –
II (SEMP/Risk)
Q12
[10.7pt bold] 2-May
[10.7pt bold] Team
[10.7pt bold] Projects due
STS; HRO;
Ethics; Course
epilogue
ch.16
Current articles
TBA; Perrow
[10.7pt bold] * It is critical to have assignments submitted on time.  The midterm will be released at the start
[10.7pt bold] of week10 and will be due 1-week later .  The project will be assigned in week11 and due
[10.7pt bold] 2MAY .  Grades for graduating students are due by 6MAY.
[15.6pt] Additional Course Information
[13.7pt] Technology support
The VMWare server will provide access to any software tools that are leveraged throughout the
semester. These include: AI0WIN, ProSim, SmartER, Visio, and MS-Project.
[15.6pt] AI Statement
[13.7pt] Leveraging AI technology as a resource
The ability to rapidly assimilate information across a large number of disparate sources is very
useful to the engineer. Unfortunately, the use and acceptance of AI technology is still in its
infancy and the veracity of the AI generated information is not easily vetted nor is there a
standard process by which the vetting is acceptable across the academic community. Regardless,
it is a resource – but due to its volatility (same prompt, different AI-bot, varied response) and
sometimes questionable provenance (what, exactly, did it assimilate in order to generate its
response) the use of this technology must be carefully documented by you. The burden of
veracity is placed on the user.
If you choose to leverage AI technologies of any type then you must, append to your submission,
the following documentation:
1. The time, date, and the exact AI technology (also termed AI-bot (for AI-Chatbot)
below) used
2. The full specification of the prompt that was used; including the progression of
prompts used to generate the result
3. The full response provided by the AI-bot
4. A discussion of how and where you leveraged the AI generated material in the
course artifact being produced
5. A full verification, by you, of the response from the AI-bot; this is akin to a
literature review for each of the points made by the AI-bot that were leveraged
by you in your submission
6. A statement, signed by you, attesting to the veracity of the response from the
AI-bot
Clearly, with a timed quiz, use of AI technology makes little sense – since you would have the
added burden of supplying the aforementioned documentation as part of the timed submission.
Additionally, the HW, midterm, and project are largely model-based, thus the use of AI may also
be of limited value versus the additional documentation required.
Any submission made using AI-based inputs, but not documented IAW the 6-steps above, will be
considered an academic honor violation.
[15.6pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[15.6pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each course
syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of these policies.
[15.6pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work submitted
to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that the item
submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep appropriate
records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the instructor
request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct case” (Section
20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[15.6pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused absences,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[15.6pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or when
attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in Student Rule 7,
or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate a
period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up work
should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section 7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie Honor
Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[15.6pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory learning,
living, and work environments for all members of the University community. The
University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students, applicants for
employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color, sex (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative Procedure
(SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In accordance with Title IX
and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not discriminate on the basis of
sex in any educational program or activity, including admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the address
and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-3481.
[15.6pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This includes
forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment, sexual
exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or learn
more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil Rights &
Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must report
the incident to the university.
[15.6pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs with
Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student Affairs
at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-3024
or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences in
Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas A&M
University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[15.6pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students should
contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become aware of the
need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances, accommodations could
include extended time to complete assignments or exams, changes in course
sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[15.6pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour emergency
help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[15.6pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[15.6pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information items
can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information Withholding Form.
The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records policy is available on
the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social security
number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will be made in
this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment of information
associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email address,
local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of attendance,
program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous institutions
attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in officially recognized
activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical residence specialization.
[15.6pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse is
critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university has
an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in accordance with
Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage civil dialogue creating
an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas and to have their ideas
challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can learn more about
Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's website  about the First
Amendment.