<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 411 Syllabus
Section 501 (23995)
Design and Analysis of Algorithms
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MWF
Start Time: 11:30AM
End Time: 12:20PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 350
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Calvin Beideman
Email:  beideman@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 113
Phone:  (979) 845-2479
Office Hours
Follow link to “Office Hours” under “Student Resources” on the course Canvas
homepage.
Preferred Contact Method
Email
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Design and Analysis of Algorithms. (3-0). Credit 3. Study of computer algorithms for
numeric and non-numeric problems; design paradigms; analysis of time and space
requirements of algorithms; correctness of algorithms; NP-completeness and
undecidability of problems. Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in CSCE 221 and
CSCE 222; junior or senior classification or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 221 and
CSCE 222/ECEN 222; junior or senior classification or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Explain a variety of fundamental algorithms and algorithmic techniques
Select the most appropriate algorithm to solve a given problem
Analyze the correctness, runtime, and space complexity of an algorithm
Design new algorithms and modify existing ones using techniques discussed
in class
Recognize when a problem is likely intractable (has no efficient algorithm) and
be able to prove this by showing undecidability or NP-hardness
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Introduction to Algorithms
ISBN:  9780262046305
Authors:  Cormen T.H., Leiserson C.E., Rivest R.L. and
Stein C.
Publisher:  The MIT Press
Publication Date:  2022
Edition:  4th edition
This material Is: Optional
Algorithms
Authors:  Jeff Erickson
URL for Resource:
https://jeffe.cs.illinois.edu/teaching/algorithms/
Notes:
Free online textbook from the professor who taught me
Algorithms at UIUC. Helpful if you want an alternate
explanation of many of the topics in the course.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Grades will be assigned according to the following scale:
Grading Scale
Rounded % total
Letter Grade
100 - 85
A
<85 and  ≥  75
B
<75 and  ≥  65
C
<65 and  ≥  55
D
<55
F
These grades represent varying degrees of achievement (see the  university's
grading system ): A = excellent, B = good, C = satisfactory, D = passing, F = failing.
If you want to challenge any grading, you must do so within one week of when the
grade is published.
I reserve the right to adjust grades upwards (i.e. add a curve), but I do not expect to
do so.
[12.9pt] Homework (20%)
There will be seven homeworks, with one due every other week. Any extensions or
changes to the homework schedule will be posted on the course Canvas
homepage.
All homeworks can be done collaboratively, with a group of up to 4 total students
(only one of the four group members should submit on Gradescope, and they
should include the other group members on the submission). While the group
should only submit one set of solutions for grading, all students in the group should
understand and be able to explain these solutions. I reserve the right to ask you to
orally explain any homework solution submitted by a group you are part of.
You may freely change your group from week to week, or even do the homework
solo. If you would like to work with other students and are struggling to find a
group, reach out to me. You must use the same group for all problems on a
particular homework, however (so you can’t, for example, do one problem with a
group and another solo). Outside of this, collaboration is not permitted.
You are strongly encouraged to typeset your homework solutions in LaTeX using
the template provided on the course Canvas homepage.
All solutions must be in your own words, and you should cite any sources you used.
Do not read or search for solutions to any of the homework problems, any closely
related problems, or any problems from chapters of the book that you have not yet
been assigned homework on. Do not ask any human or AI for solutions to these
problems, other than your groupmates and the course staff. Once a homework
deadline has passed, you are free to discuss those homework problems and
problems from the relevant portion of the textbook with whomever you wish (to
prepare for exams, for example).
[12.9pt] Quizzes (5%)
Quizzes on Canvas will be due before most lectures covering assigned readings
from the textbook or course notes for that lecture. These quizzes must be
completed individually. Your lowest 4 quiz grades will be dropped.
[12.9pt] Midterm Exams (45%)
Three midterm exams, each worth 15% of your course grade. Taken on paper
during the lecture period.
[12.9pt] Final Exam (30%)
Cumulative, paper-only (no computers allowed) and taken in your lecture room
during your lecture exam time set by the registrar.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late homeworks are not accepted and are worth 0 points.
If your circumstances make it difficult for you to contribute to a particular
homework on time, I encourage you to negotiate with your groupmates to allow
someone else to pick up your slack in exchange for more contributions from you on
a future homework.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[12.9pt] Topics and Midterm Exam Schedule
The schedule of topics is tentative and subject to change.
Topic and Midterm Exam Schedule
Week   Topics
Exams
1
Proofs, Induction, and Loop Invariants
Week   Topics
Exams
2
Decidability and Undecidability
3
Big-O and Divide and Conquer
4
Graph basics, BFS and DFS
5
Single Source Shortest Paths
Exam 1
6
Minimum Spanning Trees and Matchings
7
Maximum Flows
8
Recursive Backtracking and Dynamic Programming
9
Dynamic Programming
Exam 2
10
Dynamic Programming and Greedy Algorithms
11
Linear Programming
12
NP
13
Proving NP-Hardness
Exam 3
14
Approximation, Online, and Randomized Algorithms
15
Interactive Proofs and Final Exam Review
[12.9pt] Exam Schedule
All exams are held in the regular classroom ZACH 350. The three midterm exams
will take place during the regular class time (11:30 a.m. - 12:20 p.m.)
Exam 1: Friday, February 13
Exam 2: Friday, March 20
Exam 3: Wednesday, April 15
Final Exam: Tuesday, May 5, 10:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m
[12.0pt] Homework Due Dates
The normal pattern is every other Monday:
1. Monday, January 26
2. Monday, February 9
3. Monday, February 23
4. Monday, March 16
5. Monday, March 30
6. Monday, April 13
7. Monday, April 27
Any extensions will be posted under Announcements on the course Canvas
homepage.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[12.9pt] Course Copyright
The materials used within this course are copyrighted. These materials include, but
are not limited to, syllabi, quizzes, exams, homework problems, handouts, course
videos, audio and visual recordings of classes, etc. Because these materials are
copyrighted, you do not have the right to copy or distribute these materials unless
permission is expressly granted.
[12.9pt] Accessibility Statement
I want you to do well in this challenging course. While the  Disability Accommodation
Portal (AIM Portal)  eases sharing accommodation information, feel free to make an
appointment with me to discuss your accommodations. In addition to
accommodations, I would be happy to discuss strategies for succeeding in this
course.
I encourage you to get your accommodations, even if you don’t feel you will need
them. I prefer that you get your accommodations and not need them, rather than
trying without your accommodations and finding out that you needed them.
[12.9pt] Professionalism and Respect
You are expected to treat your instructor and all other participants in the course
with courtesy and respect. Your comments to others should be factual,
constructive, and free from harassing statements. You are encouraged to disagree
with other students, but such  disagreements need to be based upon facts and
documentation  (rather than prejudices and personalities).
Unprofessional or disrespectful conduct will result in a lower grade on an
assignment. Warnings will not be given; part of the learning process in this course is
the respectful engagement of ideas with others.
Students will need to contribute in intelligent, positive, and constructive manners
within the course. Behaviors that are abusive, disruptive, or harassing may result in
disciplinary actions as specified within the Student Rules.
Students in this course are also responsible for being familiar with the  University’s
student rules and policies .
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Artificial Intelligence (AI) text generators and natural language processing tools
(colloquially, chatbots - such as ChatGPT), audio, computer code, video, and image
generators  must not be used in any way  for completing assignments or
assessments in this course. This includes not just copying output from AI tools but
also using AI tools to summarize a homework assignment, to get high level
algorithmic ideas or to improve your grammar. Students engaging in AI use to
complete course work will be reported and sanctioned.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.