<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 314 Syllabus
Section 502 (55143)
Programming Languages
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 5:30PM
End Time: 6:45PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 310
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Hyunyoung Lee
Email:  hlee42@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 419
Phone:  979-845-2490
Office Hours
[13.0pt] See   Office   Hours   page   on   Canvas   course   homepage
Preferred Contact Method
email
Webpage:  https://people.engr.tamu.edu/hlee42/index.html
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Programming Languages. (3-0). Credit 3. Exploration of the design space of
programming languages via an in-depth study of two programming languages, one
functional and one object-oriented; focuses on idiomatic uses of each language and
on features characteristic for each language. Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in
CSCE 221, or concurrent enrollment.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 221, or concurrent
enrollment.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
[12.0pt] Upon completion of this course, students will be able to:
[12.0pt] Use modern programming languages effectively
[12.0pt] Develop the necessary skills to learn and adopt new programming
[12.0pt] languages
[12.0pt] Evaluate the power of programming languages and their constructs
[12.0pt] Apply language constructs, common abstraction mechanisms, and
[12.0pt] efficiency considerations
[12.0pt] Analyze the meaning and efficiency of functional and object-oriented
[12.0pt] programs
[12.0pt] Master many specific language concepts and use them effectively to
[12.0pt] build correct and elegant software
[12.0pt] Although the course uses and studies specific programming languages,
[12.0pt] learning these languages should be considered as a side benefit of the
[12.0pt] course, not the main goal.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Programming in Haskell, 2nd Ed.
ISBN:  978-1316626221
Authors:  Graham Hutton
Publisher:  Cambridge University Press
Edition:  Second Edition
URL for Resource:  https://people.cs.nott.ac.uk/pszgmh/pih.html
Notes:
Reserved at the TAMU library.
The easiest way to install Haskell on your computer:  https://www.haskell.org/ghcup/
This material Is: Optional
The Java Programming Language, 4th Ed.
ISBN:  978-0-321-34980-4
Authors:  Ken Arnold, James Gosling, and David Holmes
Edition:  Fourth Edition
Notes:
Reserved at the TAMU library; also eBook available via the TAMU library: From the
following website > click "Sign In" > choose "Texas A&M University" from the list of
affiliated institutions > use your NetID credential to access the eBook:
https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/the-javatm-programming/0321349806/
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
One midterm exam and one comprehensive final exam, each 25%. The midterm
exam will be taken in our classroom during the class time. The final exam will be
taken in our classroom starting at the time set by the registrar. See the course
schedule below for the exam dates and times.
Homework 25%: There will be about eight sets of homework, which mainly consist
of programming, step-by-step explanation and/or analyzing the correctness and
efficiency of your program.
Quizzes 15%: There will be weekly quizzes. One lowest quiz grade will be dropped.
Exercises 10%: There will be weekly exercises. One lowest exercise grade will be
dropped.
Final grades will be assigned according to this scale based on the weighted final
average:
A: 90 and above,
B: [80--90),
C: [70--80),
D: [60--70),
F: below 60
The scale may be adjusted by the instructor to reflect score variations.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late submission beyond the deadline will not be accepted in general, unless a
university-sanctioned excuse is provided ahead of time. Homework submission is
the only exception: late submission of homework beyond the deadline will incur 5%
deduction per hour late (Canvas rounds up to the hour). For example, if you submit
your work within one hour after the deadline, 5% of your grade will be deducted. If
you submit your work 2 hours and 2 minutes after the deadline, then your grade
will be deducted by 15%.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Midterm Exam: Thursday, 2/26 in our classroom during our class time (for 60
minutes)
Final Exam: Tuesday, 5/5, starting at 3:30 PM in our classroom (for 90 minutes)
[10.5pt] (Tentative schedule; see Canvas Modules for more details. Reading: [H] Haskell
[10.5pt] textbook, [J] Java textbook)
Week
#
Class
Dates
Topics
Reading
1
1/13, 1/15   Introduction; Haskell and Functional
Programming Basics
[H] Chs. 1, 2
2
1/20, 1/22   Haskell Types, Currying, Polymorphism;
Functions
[H] Chs. 3, 4,
15
3
127, 1/29   List Comprehensions; Recursive Functions
[H] Chs. 5, 6,
16
4
2/3, 2/5
Higher-Order Functions; Declaring Types
and Classes
[H] Chs. 7, 8
5
2/10, 2/12   IO; Monads; Monadic Parsing
[H] Chs. 10,
12, 13
6
2/17, 2/19   Syntax and Semantics; PL Implementation
[H] Ch. 17
7
2/24, 2/26   Syntactic Analysis; Midterm Review; Midterm
Exam
[J] Chs. 1, 2
8
3/3, 3/5
Java and Object-Oriented Programming
Basics
[J] Chs. 3, 4, 5
9
(3/9-3/13)   Spring break. No classes
10
3/17, 3/19   Java and OOP Basics (Cont.)
[J] Chs. 6, 7, 8
11
3/24, 3/26   Java Virtual Machine (JVM)
[J] Chs. 9, 10
12
3/31, 4/2
Java Generics
[J] Ch. 11
13
4/7, 4/9
Java Generics (Cont.); Java Concurrency
[J] Chs. 11, 14
14
4/14, 4/16   Java Concurrency (Cont.)
[J] Ch. 14
15
4/21,
4/23*
Java Reflection; Final review
[J] Ch. 16
(*) Our last class
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
Course Conduct and Academic Integrity : Each assignment will be done
individually. Note the following acceptable/unacceptable collaborations.
Acceptable collaboration includes: (1) discussing the assigned problems to
understand their meaning or (2) discussing possible approaches to assigned
problems. However, you must explicitly acknowledge any help received from
someone and reference every source you use, whether it be a person, a book, a
paper, a solution set, a web page or whatever.
Unacceptable collaboration includes: (1) copying (verbatim use) of someone else's
solution including AI, physical papers or computer files including program files,
either wholly or in part, however you have access to them, (2) submission of
solutions that are jointly authored, or authored either wholly or in part by other
individual including AI, or (3) providing physical papers or computer files including
program files of your or third-party solutions to other individuals or posting them
on any Internet media.
In general, you may discuss the strategy and approach to solutions with others, but
you must construct and write up all final answers in your own words by
yourself , and you must not share the final product in any way even after the
deadline has passed and even after the course is over.
Make sure that all of your files are properly secured since you may be responsible if
someone copies your files.
Should questions arise during the course of working on a problem, immediately
contact the instructor by email or by office hour visit.
On all assignments and examinations at Texas A&M University, the following Honor
Pledge shall be preprinted and signed by the student: " On my honor, as an Aggie, I
have neither given nor received unauthorized aid on this academic work. "
Submitting any work online via the student's TAMU account assumes that the
student signed the above statement electronically.
Attendance and Make-up Policy :  Class attendance and course participation is
mandatory.  If students miss class, it is their responsibility to catch up with the
materials and announcements.
Medical reasons or other extenuating conditions beyond the control of the student
must be properly documented. Any make-up work must be completed before the
solutions are discussed or posted or the graded results become available to the
students, whichever occurs first. Discuss unusual circumstances  in advance  with the
instructor when possible. For more information, see  https://student-
rules.tamu.edu/rule07 .
Submission of Work Policy : All assignments must be submitted electronically
using the submission link set up by the instructor on the Canvas course page by the
due date and time specified for each assignment.  E-mail submissions will not be
accepted; they will be ignored without notice .
Regrading Policy : A student can request regrading of any graded material if the
student believes that the points assigned are inconsistent with the quality and
merits of the submitted work. To request regrading the student needs to follow the
guidelines below.
Regrading requests must be submitted to the instructor or using the regrade
request directly on Gradescope if the grading is done on Gradescope, within
one week (unless specified otherwise) after the graded results have been
released to the student. After this time limit no regrading requests will be
honored.
Regrading requests must be in a written form using the regrade request on
Gradescope or via e-mail, accompanied by a reasonable amount of specific
justification and documentation. Make sure that you receive the confirmation
response from the instructor or the TA.
Course Copyright Statement : All materials used in this course are copyrighted.
These materials include but are not limited to the syllabi, exercises, quizzes, exams,
homework problems, solutions provided by the instructor, lecture notes and slides,
handouts, and course videos, etc. Because these materials are copyrighted, you do
not have the right to copy or distribute these materials, unless permission is
explicitly granted by the instructor.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Any use of AI is strictly prohibited in this course.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the  First Amendment.