<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 726 Syllabus
Section 600 (58445)
Large-Scale Optimization for Machine Learning
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
[12.0pt] Course Number: CSCE-726
[12.0pt] Course Title: Large-scale Optimization for Machine Learning
[12.0pt] Section: Spring 2026
[12.0pt] Course Website: CANVAS
[12.0pt] Time:  Monday, Wednesday, Friday (3:00-3:50pm)
[12.0pt] Location: H.R. Bright Building, Room 126
[12.0pt] Credit Hours: 3
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Tianbao Yang
Email:  tianbao-yang@tamu.edu
Office Location:  436
Phone:  9798458873
Office Hours
Monday 4-5pm
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Large-Scale Optimization for Machine Learning. (3-0). Credit 3. Fundamental
optimization algorithms and their analysis for solving machine learning problems;
deterministic and stochastic gradient-based algorithms; adaptive gradient-based
methods; momentum-based methods; convergence analysis of selected algorithms;
implementation of algorithms and their application to solving of real-world machine
learning and artificial intelligence problems. Prerequisites: CSCE 633 or CSCE 636 or
approval of instructor; graduate classification.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
[12.0pt] Large-scale optimization plays an important role in machine learning (ML) and
[12.0pt] artificial intelligence (AI). In the past twenty years, there are many efficient
[12.0pt] algorithms that have been proposed and employed for solving various machine
[12.0pt] learning problems, e.g., stochastic gradient descent (SGD), adaptive gradient methods
[12.0pt] (e.g., AdaGrad, Adam), momentum-based methods, etc. Many of these algorithms
[12.0pt] have been implemented in modern deep learning packages such as Pytorch and
[12.0pt] Tensorflow.
[12.0pt] This course will cover fundamental optimization algorithms and their analysis for
[12.0pt] solving advanced machine learning problems. It will cover advanced machine
[12.0pt] learning methods and classic and modern stochastic gradient-based algorithms.
[12.0pt] Students will not only need to understand the fundamental principle of machine
[12.0pt] learning and convergence analysis of various optimization algorithms but also need to
[12.0pt] implement them through Python and apply them for solving real-world ML/AI
[12.0pt] problems. Prerequisites include:
You should be comfortable with intensive Math and Programming.
Basic knowledge about optimization (e.g., convex functions, strongly convex
functions, gradient, etc.) and machine learning (e.g., supervised learning, linear
regression, logistic regression, support vector machines, basic deep learning).
Math Background: Linear algebra, Calculus, Probability and Statistics, Optimization
Programming Background: Python, Pytorch, Tensorflow
[12.0pt] Preferably access to GPUs (e.g.,  Google Colab ,  TAMU HPRC )
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  CSCE 633 or CSCE 636 or approval of instructor;
graduate classification.
[13.0pt] Recommended Background
[12.0pt bold] Proficiency
[12.0pt bold] in
[12.0pt bold] Math
[12.0pt bold] (linear
[12.0pt bold] algebra,
[12.0pt bold] probability/statistics,
[12.0pt bold] optimization).  Half of homework assignments will be written questions about
[12.0pt] deriving some mathematical proofs for analyzing some machine learning
[12.0pt] problems and optimization algorithms. You should be comfortable of
[12.0pt] mathematical analysis involving functions, gradients, inequalities, matrices,
[12.0pt] vectors, random variables, expectations, etc.
[12.0pt bold] Proficiency in Python . Half of homework assignments will be programming
[12.0pt] questions. You are required to implement some optimization algorithms in
[12.0pt] Python and apply them to solve some ML/AI problems.
[12.0pt bold] Familiar with PyTorch . Some coding assignments involving deep learning
[12.0pt] will use  PyTorch , which is an excellent python-based toolbox for machine
[12.0pt] learning and deep learning. Check out the official  tutorial .
[12.0pt bold] Some Foundations of  Machine Learning   and   Deep Learning .  You should be
[12.0pt] familiar with some basic machine learning methods/techniques, e.g.,
[12.0pt] linear regression, logistic regression, support vector machine,
[12.0pt] regularization, and have some basic knowledge of deep learning. You
[12.0pt] will need to set up a deep neural network and run some optimization
[12.0pt] algorithms for learning the parameters of the deep neural network on
[12.0pt] some large-scale datasets, and conduct the evaluations.
[11.0pt bold] Recommended Background Courses.  CSCE 110 Programming,  MATH 304 Linear
Algebra , MATH 411 Mathematical Probability,  CSCE 625/425 Artificial Intelligence ,
CSCE 633/ 421  Machine Learning,  CSCE 636 Deep Learning .
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
[12.0pt] The objective of this course is to teach some classic deterministic optimization and
[12.0pt] modern large-scale stochastic optimization algorithms for solving ML/AI problems.
[12.0pt] Upon completion of the course, students will:
1.  be able to name classical stochastic optimization algorithms and analyze their
convergence properties;
[11.5pt] 2.  be able to evaluate and compare the performance of different optimization
[11.5pt] algorithms for solving the same problem;
[11.5pt] 3.  be able to apply tuning strategies to improve the performance of an optimization
[11.5pt] algorithm;
[12.0pt] 4.  be able to design some new optimization algorithms for solving large-
[12.0pt] scale ML problems .
[12.0pt] The learning outcomes will be assessed based on homework assignments and a final
[12.0pt] course project.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Compositional Optimization for Advanced Machine Learning
Authors:  Tianbao Yang
Notes:
https://opt4ml.org/
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[13.0pt] Grading Policy
Homework assignments: 45%
Project: 55% (Proposal 10%, Presentation 15%, Final Results 30%)
[13.0pt] Grading Scale
[12.0pt] A = [90, 100]
[12.0pt] B = [80, 90)
[12.0pt] C = [70, 80)
[12.0pt] D = [60, 70)
[12.0pt] F = <60
[13.0pt] Grading Disputes
[12.0pt] Questions on assignment grading should be discussed with the instructor. Grading
[12.0pt] dispute period for the course project will be determined and announced at the time of
[12.0pt] grade posting based on university deadline for submitting letter grades. Grading
[12.0pt] disputes for all other graded materials (other than the course project) must be
[12.0pt] presented to the respective party within ONE week upon receiving grading results
[12.0pt] (timed as email notification). All grades after the dispute time windows are
[12.0pt] considered final.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[13.0pt] Late Policies
[12.0pt] Late submission caused by excused absence (defined in  Student rule 7 ) will be
[12.0pt] accepted. Excused absence will not be counted towards late days. Contact the
[12.0pt] instructor if you think you have an extremely rare circumstance for which we should
[12.0pt] make an exception. This policy is to ensure that feedback can be given in a timely
[12.0pt] manner.
[12.0pt] Unexpected excused absences: In cases where prior notification of excused absence is
[12.0pt] not feasible (e.g., accident or emergency) the student must provide notification by the
[12.0pt] end of the second working day after the absence, including an explanation of why
[12.0pt] notice could not be sent prior to the class.
[12.0pt] Each homework assignment due by midnight (11:59pm) on the due date. Late
[12.0pt] homeworks will not be graded so please just hand in whatever you have completed.
[12.0pt] Solution sketches will be provided after homeworks have been turned in. Late project
[12.0pt] submissions will not be accepted.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[13.0pt] Course Schedule (Tentative)
Tentative Schedule
[10.0pt bold] Week
[10.0pt bold] Description
[10.0pt bold] Required
[10.0pt bold] reading
[10.0pt bold] Notes
[10.0pt] 1
[10.0pt] Introduction & Convex
[10.0pt] Optimization
[10.0pt] Lecture
[10.0pt] Slides
[10.0pt] 2
[10.0pt] Convex Optimization
[10.0pt] Lecture
[10.0pt] Notes
[10.0pt] 3
[10.0pt] Advanced Machine Learning
[10.0pt] Lecture
[10.0pt] Notes
[10.0pt] Homework 1 Due
[10.0pt] 4
[10.0pt] Advanced Machine Learning
[10.0pt] Lecture
[10.0pt] Slides
[10.0pt] 5
[10.0pt] Stochastic Gradient Descent
[10.0pt] Lecture
[10.0pt] Notes
[10.0pt] Homework 2 Due
[10.0pt] 6
[10.0pt] Stochastic Proximal Gradient
[10.0pt] Descent
[10.0pt] Lecture
[10.0pt] Notes
[10.0pt] 7
[10.0pt] Stochastic Mirror Gradient
[10.0pt] Descent
[10.0pt] Lecture
[10.0pt] Slides
[10.0pt] Homework 3 Due
[10.0pt] 8
[10.0pt] AdaGrad
[10.0pt] Lecture
[10.0pt] Notes
[10.0pt] 9
[10.0pt] Spring Break
[10.0pt] Lecture
[10.0pt] Notes
[10.0pt] 10
[10.0pt] Stochastic Optimization for
[10.0pt] Deep Learning
[10.0pt] Lecture
[10.0pt] Slides
[10.0pt] 11
[10.0pt] Stochastic Compositional
[10.0pt] Optimization
[10.0pt] Lecture
[10.0pt] Notes
[10.0pt] Homework 4 Due
[10.0pt] 12
[10.0pt] Stochastic Compositional
[10.0pt] Optimization
[10.0pt] Lecture
[10.0pt] Notes
[10.0pt] 13
[10.0pt] Stochastic Compositional
[10.0pt] Optimization
[10.0pt] Lecture
[10.0pt] Slides
[10.0pt] Homework 5 Due
[10.0pt] 14
[10.0pt] Stochastic Min-Max
[10.0pt] Optimization
[10.0pt] 15
[10.0pt] Stochastic Bilevel
[10.0pt] Optimization
[10.0pt] 16
[10.0pt] Project Presentation
[10.0pt] NA
[10.0pt] Final Report Due on last day of the
[10.0pt] semester
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[12.0pt] The use of AI tools such as large language models for completing homework
[12.0pt] assignments, exams, or the course project is strictly prohibited. However, it is
[12.0pt] acceptable to use them for tasks such as editing your writing or assisting in debugging
[12.0pt] your code.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
Galveston Students:
Technology Services - Help Desk
[10.5pt] E-mail:  Helpdesk@tamug.edu
[10.5pt] Phone: 409-740-4714
[10.5pt] Location: Bldg 3007 (CLB), Rm 113
[10.5pt] Hours: Monday - Friday 7:30am to 6:00pm
[10.5pt bold] Canvas LMS Technical Support
[10.5pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[10.5pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[10.5pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[10.5pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
[10.5pt] navigation menu.
[10.5pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.