<!-- body_font:12.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 331 Syllabus
[11.0pt] Section 970 (58347)
[11.0pt] Foundations of Software Engineering
[11.0pt] Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
[11.0pt] Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
[11.0pt] Meeting Days: MWF
[11.0pt] Start Time: 10:20AM
[11.0pt] End Time: 11:10AM
[11.0pt] Start Date: 01/12/2026
[11.0pt] End Date: 05/05/2026
[11.0pt] Meeting Location:  HRBB 126
[11.0pt] Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
[11.0pt] Meeting Days: MW
[11.0pt] Start Time: 4:10PM
[11.0pt] End Time: 5:00PM
[11.0pt] Start Date: 01/12/2026
[11.0pt] End Date: 05/05/2026
[11.0pt] Meeting Location:  ZACH 584
[11.0pt] Credit Hours:  4
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
[11.0pt] Yoonsuck Choe
[11.0pt] Email:  choe@tamu.edu
[11.0pt] Office Location:  PETR 327
[11.0pt] Phone:  9798455466
[11.0pt] Office Hours
WF 1:00pm-2:30pm via zoom,  https://tamu.zoom.us/my/yoonsuckchoe
[11.0pt] Preferred Contact Method
[11.0pt] email
[11.0pt] Biography
[11.0pt] see https://faculty.cs.tamu.edu/choe
[11.0pt] Socials
[11.0pt] N/A
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
[11.0pt] Foundations of Software Engineering. (3-2). Credit 4. Intensive programming
[11.0pt] experience and provision of the fundamentals needed for larger-scale software
[11.0pt] development; integration of concepts in computer science and familiarization with a
[11.0pt] variety of programming and development tools and techniques; team projects each
[11.0pt] with an emphasis on a different specialization within computer science; emphasis
[11.0pt] on programming techniques to ease code integration and clarity; practical exposure
[11.0pt] to software-engineering processes through large-scale projects and specification
[11.0pt] and documentation. Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in CSCE 314, CSCE 350, or
[11.0pt] ECEN 350; grade of C or better or concurrent enrollment in CSCE 313.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
[11.0pt] Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 314,
[11.0pt] CSCE 350/ECEN 350, or ECEN 350/CSCE 350; grade of C or better or concurrent
[11.0pt] enrollment in CSCE 313.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
[11.0pt] Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
[11.0pt] Explain  the need for software engineering through analysis of industry
[11.0pt] examples and personal experience.
[11.0pt] Apply  fundamental concepts of software construction, including
[11.0pt] requirements management, design, implementation, testing, and
[11.0pt] deployment.
[11.0pt] Design  and  develop  software that is clear, maintainable, and integrates
[11.0pt] current software technologies, including new and unfamiliar tools.
[11.0pt] Collaborate  and  communicate  effectively in small teams to achieve project
[11.0pt] goals.
[11.0pt] Produce  technical documentation using characteristics of effective technical
[11.0pt] writing.
[11.0pt] Analyze  software system requirements for portability, performance, and
[11.0pt] testability.
[11.0pt] Employ  coding layout and style conventions to enhance code clarity and ease
[11.0pt] of integration.
[11.0pt] Utilize  software tools and APIs to augment software functionality and
[11.0pt] maintainability.
[11.0pt] Implement  database solutions and design user interfaces that meet project
[11.0pt] specifications.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
[11.0pt] UWRT - University Required Writing Intensive
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
[11.0pt] This material Is: Required
[11.0pt] Code Complete
[11.0pt] Authors:  Steve McConnell
[11.0pt] Publisher:  Microsoft press
[11.0pt] Publication Date:  2004
[11.0pt] Edition:  2nd
[11.0pt] URL for Resource:  https://go.oreilly.com/TAMU/library/view/-/0735619670/?ar
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
The grading will be based on various class activities:
1. Writing : 35% (Project 1: 300 + 300 [revision]; Project 2: midterm report
400 + final report 500; Project 3: project ideation 250 + midterm report
400 + final 500). To receive a passing grade in this course, you have to
get a passing grade on the writing component: weighted total 70/100
(equivalent to 'C'' or better).
2. Three projects: 50% : 1 individual project (15%) and 2 team projects
(project 2: 15%, project 3: 20%),
Project 1 [Individual]: Web-site building and deployment. HTML,
JavaScript, CSS, PHP, regex, Docker
Project 2 [team]: Corporate database (personnel, sales, customer,
branches, inventory, etc.). Waterfall development paradigm. Java DB
connectivity (JDBC). SQL database. Java GUI API (Swing, etc.). AWS or
Docker
Project 3 [team]: Agile development paradigm. Google apps scripts
development (G-suite add-on: Doc, Sheet, Slides, etc.). Apps Scripts
(Google's cloud-based JavaScript). HCI components.
3. Honors project: 7%: This is a semester-long individual side project, fully
utilizing AI tools. Similar in spirit with Google's "20% time". You get to
choose what to do. You are expected to set aside ~2 hours / week on this
side project. Grading will be based on final presentation. Weekly commits
are required.
Note that for all other projects, you are only allowed to use AI tools for
dev environment setup and other tasks explicitly stated in the project
description.
4. Attendance: 4%, based on attendance. Each absence will deduct 1%
(out of 4%) of the attendance score (this includes both the lecture and
the lab). Excused absences will only be allowed for those allowed in the
[12.0pt bold] university rules.  UPDATE: Up to 10 undocumented absences will be
[12.0pt bold] excused (no questions asked).
5. Quizzes: 4% (total of 2, 2% each)
There will be three projects in the course. Specific grading practices for each
project will be announced when that project is given out, but the grade may
include factors such as evaluation of code clarity, teamwork, etc. Peer
evaluation may be used as a significant contributing factor to these grades
(see below).
The projects are scored by the team, however, different individual
contribution can lead to differential grades given the same team score.
i = individual score
t = team score
c = your contribution (X%, e.g., 25%). Sum of c for all members in the
team should equal 100.
d = contribution divisor (Y%, e.g., 25% for a team of 4, 33.3% for a team
of 3, etc.)
m = max score attainable = 110
Formula: i = min(sqrt(c/d) * t, m).
Examples:
1. Team got 90 and your contribution was 25% for a 4-person team.
i = min (sqrt(25/25) * 90, 110) = min(1*90, 110) = 90.
2. Team got 85 and your contribution was 45% for a 4-person team
(your team mates slacked off).
i = min (sqrt(45/25) * 85, 110) = min(114.03, 110) = 110.
3. Team got 95 and your contribution was 20% for a 3-person team.
i = min (sqrt(20/33.333) * 95, 110) = min(73.587, 110) = 73.587
The grading scheme will be: 89.5: A; 79.5: B; 69.5: C; 59.5: D; all else F.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
[11.0pt] Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
[11.0pt] considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late penalty: 1 point (out of 100) per hour. Late submissions will not be
accepted 4 days after the deadline and/or after the solution has been
posted.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
A detailed weekly schedule of the course with topics and deadlines
[12.0pt bold] WeekMondayWednesdayFridayTopic
[12.0pt bold] Due Dates
1
1/12
1/14
1/16
[12.0pt bold] Introduction;  Project 1
[12.0pt bold] announcement ;
HTML/PHP/CSS/JavaScript
basics; Reading: Ch 1, 9.1,
9.2
2
1/19
1/21
1/23
Naming, style, commenting
(Ch 11.1, 11.2, 31);
Software design principles
(Ch 5.1, 5.2, 5.3); Testing
(Ch 8.1, 8.2, 8.3; Ch 22);
Monday: Martin Luther King
Day, no class)
[12.0pt bold] project 1
[12.0pt bold] phase 1
[12.0pt bold] (CVS ): 1/25
[12.0pt bold] SUN
3
1/26
1/28
1/30
Waterfall model; Debugging
(Ch 23);
[12.0pt bold] project 1
[12.0pt bold] phase 2
[12.0pt bold] (markdown
[12.0pt bold] + search):
[12.0pt bold] 2/1 SUN
[12.0pt bold] WeekMondayWednesdayFridayTopic
[12.0pt bold] Due Dates
4
2/2
2/4
2/6
[12.0pt bold] Project 2 announcement ;
Databases ; Entity-
relationship model;
Relational DB, SQL
schema;
[12.0pt bold] project 1
[12.0pt bold] final (gallery
[12.0pt bold] + *  writing) :
[12.0pt bold] 2/8 SUN
5
2/9
2/11
2/13
SQL queries; API
design;  Design patterns;
Project 1 recap. Example
PHP project (instructor).
[12.0pt bold] project 2
[12.0pt bold] phase 1
[12.0pt bold] (design
[12.0pt bold] doc): 2/15
[12.0pt bold] SUN
6
2/16
2/18
2/20
Project 1
showcase; Collaborative
code development (Ch 21,
24); Code portability ; Code
performance ; Code tuning;
(Ch 25, 26)
[12.0pt bold] * project 1
[12.0pt bold] writing
[12.0pt bold] revision:
[12.0pt bold] 2/22 SUN
7
2/23
2/25
2/27
Agile development ; Test-
driven development (Ch
22); SOLID principles;
Technical writing tips;
[12.0pt bold] project 2
[12.0pt bold] phase 2
[12.0pt bold] (JDBC):2/25
[12.0pt bold] WED!
[12.0pt bold] * project 2
[12.0pt bold] writing
[12.0pt bold] (status
[12.0pt bold] report): 2/29
[12.0pt bold] SUN
8
3/2
3/4
3/6
Human Computer
Interaction; HCI design
principles and user
[12.0pt bold] study;  Project 3
[12.0pt bold] announcement ; Google G-
suite add-ons
[12.0pt bold] project 2
[12.0pt bold] phase 3
[12.0pt bold] (GUI): 3/8
[12.0pt bold] SUN
9
3/9
3/11
3/13
Spring Break
[12.0pt bold] WeekMondayWednesdayFridayTopic
[12.0pt bold] Due Dates
10
3/16
3/18
3/20
HCI design principles &
user study ; Meet in class
for Q/A and work with your
team on your project.
[12.0pt bold] project 2
[12.0pt bold] final + *
[12.0pt bold] writing: 3/22
[12.0pt bold] SUN
[12.0pt bold] Quiz 1 due
[12.0pt bold] 3/18 WED!
11
3/23
3/25
3/27
Project 2 presentations (all
sections, all teams)
[12.0pt bold] project 3
[12.0pt bold] phase 1
[12.0pt bold] (design doc
[12.0pt bold] + * writing
[12.0pt bold] [design
[12.0pt bold] ideas]): 3/29
[12.0pt bold] SUN
12
3/30
4/1
4/3
Meet in class for Q/A and
work with your team on
your project.
13
4/6
4/8
4/10
Project 3 intermediate
review (all sections, all
teams)
[12.0pt bold] project 3
[12.0pt bold] phase 2 (UI
[12.0pt bold] code + *
[12.0pt bold] writing
[12.0pt bold] [status
[12.0pt bold] report]):
[12.0pt bold] 4/10 FRI
14
4/13
4/15
4/17
Meet in class for Q/A and
work with your team on
your project. (Friday:
Reading day, no class)
[12.0pt bold] project 3
[12.0pt bold] phase 3
[12.0pt bold] (core algo):
[12.0pt bold] 4/19 SUN
[12.0pt bold] Quiz 2 due
[12.0pt bold] 4/22 WED
[12.0pt bold] WeekMondayWednesdayFridayTopic
[12.0pt bold] Due Dates
15
4/20
4/22
4/24
Project 3 intermediate
review (all sections, all
teams)
[12.0pt bold] project 3
[12.0pt bold] final due
[12.0pt bold] 4/26 SUN
16
4/27
4/28(Tue!)
Course wrap up; 4/27-4/28
Side Project Presentation.
[12.0pt bold] On final exam day  5/4
[12.0pt bold] (Mon) 8am-10am : Project
3 presentations.
[12.0pt bold] project 3
[12.0pt bold] writing due
[12.0pt bold] 4/29 Wed,
[12.0pt bold] side project
[12.0pt bold] presentation
[12.0pt bold] file due 4/16
[12.0pt bold] Sunday.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
You are not allowed to use any AI tools to solve your homework problems
(both writing and coding), unless explicitly allowed by the instructor.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
[11.0pt] Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
[11.0pt] Hours: 24/7
[11.0pt] Phone: (979) 845-8300
[11.0pt] Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
[11.0pt] Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
[11.0pt] Canvas LMS Technical Support
[11.0pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[11.0pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[11.0pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[11.0pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
[11.0pt] navigation menu.
[11.0pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[11.0pt] Galveston Students:
[11.0pt] Technology Services - Help Desk
[10.5pt] E-mail:  Helpdesk@tamug.edu
[10.5pt] Phone: 409-740-4714
[10.5pt] Location: Bldg 3007 (CLB), Rm 113
[10.5pt] Hours: Monday - Friday 7:30am to 6:00pm
[10.5pt bold] Canvas LMS Technical Support
[10.5pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[10.5pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[10.5pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[10.5pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
[10.5pt] navigation menu.
[10.5pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] University Policies
[11.0pt] This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
[11.0pt] course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
[11.0pt] these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
[11.0pt] “An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
[11.0pt] “Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
[11.0pt] submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
[11.0pt] the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
[11.0pt] appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
[11.0pt] instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
[11.0pt] case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
[11.0pt] You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
[11.0pt] academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
[11.0pt] The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
[11.0pt] responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
[11.0pt] assignments.
[11.0pt] Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
[11.0pt] absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
1. Attendance: 4%, based on attendance. Each absence will deduct 1%
(out of 4%) of the attendance score (this includes both the lecture and
the lab). Excused absences will only be allowed for those allowed in the
[12.0pt bold] university rules.  UPDATE: Up to 10 undocumented absences will be
[12.0pt bold] excused (no questions asked).
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
[11.0pt] Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
[11.0pt] when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
[11.0pt] Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
[11.0pt] Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
[11.0pt] including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[11.0pt] Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
[11.0pt] a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
[11.0pt] work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
[11.0pt] 7.4.1 ).
[11.0pt] “The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
[11.0pt] make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
[11.0pt] 7.4.2 ).
[11.0pt] Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
[11.0pt] Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Course Specific Makeup Work Policy
[11.0pt] Instructor's prior approval required.
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
[11.0pt] learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
[11.0pt] community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
[11.0pt] applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
[11.0pt] sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
[11.0pt] disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
[11.0pt] complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
[11.0pt] and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
[11.0pt] Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
[11.0pt] Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
[11.0pt] accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
[11.0pt] discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
[11.0pt] admissions and employment.
[11.0pt] The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
[11.0pt] regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
[11.0pt] Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
[11.0pt] email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
[11.0pt] Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
[11.0pt] address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
[11.0pt] 3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
[11.0pt] and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
[11.0pt] discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
[11.0pt] pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
[11.0pt] information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
[11.0pt] includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
[11.0pt] sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
[11.0pt] Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
[11.0pt] learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
[11.0pt] Rights & Title IX webpage .
[11.0pt] Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
[11.0pt] health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
[11.0pt] experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
[11.0pt] discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
[11.0pt] who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
[11.0pt] report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
[11.0pt] opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
[11.0pt] disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
[11.0pt] office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
[11.0pt] limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
[11.0pt] conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
[11.0pt] with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
[11.0pt] To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
[11.0pt] your location:
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
[11.0pt] Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
[11.0pt] Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
[11.0pt] School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
[11.0pt] Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
[11.0pt] McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
[11.0pt] Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
[11.0pt] Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
[11.0pt] accommodations.
[11.0pt] Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
[11.0pt] Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
[11.0pt] 3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
[11.0pt] in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
[11.0pt] A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
[11.0pt] If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
[11.0pt] office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
[11.0pt] Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
[11.0pt] Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
[11.0pt] and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
[11.0pt] should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
[11.0pt] aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
[11.0pt] accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
[11.0pt] changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
[11.0pt] environment.
[11.0pt] Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
[11.0pt] lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
[11.0pt] equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
[11.0pt] pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
[11.0pt] influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
[11.0pt] encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
[11.0pt] services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
[11.0pt] Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
[11.0pt] anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
[11.0pt] hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
[11.0pt] Texas A&M College Station
[11.0pt] Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
[11.0pt] 979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
[11.0pt] experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
[11.0pt] emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
[11.0pt] 988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
[11.0pt] FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
[11.0pt] limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
[11.0pt] review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
[11.0pt] inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
[11.0pt] Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
[11.0pt] items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
[11.0pt] Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
[11.0pt] policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
[11.0pt] Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
[11.0pt] security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
[11.0pt] be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
[11.0pt] of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
[11.0pt] Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
[11.0pt] address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
[11.0pt] attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
[11.0pt] institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
[11.0pt] officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
[11.0pt] residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
[11.0pt] Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
[11.0pt] is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
[11.0pt] has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
[11.0pt] accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
[11.0pt] civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
[11.0pt] and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
[11.0pt] learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
[11.0pt] website  about the First Amendment.