<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 681 Syllabus
Section 700 (52108)
Seminar
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: SEM
Meeting Days:
Start Time: N/A
End Time: N/A
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ONLINE ONLINE
Credit Hours:  1
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Ricardo Gutierrez-Osuna
Email:  rgutier@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 309
Phone:  979-845-29-42
Office Hours
By apointment
Preferred Contact Method
csce-681-rgo@tamu.edu
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Seminar. Credit 0 to 1. Reports and discussion of current research and of selected
published technical articles. May not be taken for credit more than once in master's
degree program nor twice in PhD program. Prerequisite: Graduate classification.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Graduate classification.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
[12.0pt] The purpose of the course is to expose students to a broad range of current
[12.0pt] and seminal research topics in computer science and related fields. Upon
[12.0pt] completion of the course, students should be able to prepare reports and
[12.0pt] discuss research works and selected published technical articles.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[12.0pt] To pass this course, you must
[12.0pt] 1. complete the syllabus quiz on canvas with a grade of 100%, and
[12.0pt] 2. receive an average score of 80% or higher.
[12.0pt] Any course requirements completed before passing the syllabus quiz (i.e.,
[12.0pt] 100% score) available on Canvas will not be considered.
[12.0pt bold] Section 600:
[12.0pt] You are expected to
[12.0pt] attend all the lectures scheduled during the semester, and
[12.0pt] write a report for each of them
[12.0pt] Missed reports without a proper Excused Absence will receive an
[12.0pt] automatic score of zero.
[12.0pt] Reports must be typed on a Canvas quiz and require LockDown
[12.0pt] Browser to avoid use of external aids (e.g., AI writing tools).
[12.0pt] Report quizzes open at the start of each lecture (12:45pm) and close at
[12.0pt] the end of the lecture (2:00pm). We suggest you take notes during the
[12.0pt] lecture (e.g., on paper), and then polish the report after the Q&A, up
[12.0pt] until the quiz closes.
[12.0pt bold] Each report quiz will   include five sections: (1) background, (2) problem
[12.0pt bold] statement, (3) proposed solution , (4) results, and (5) critique.   Each
[12.0pt] section is worth one point. Thus, to get a score of 80% for each report,
[12.0pt] you must receive a score of at least 4 out of 5 points.
[12.0pt] You must bring your TAMU ID to the seminar so we can verify you
[12.0pt] attended the lecture.
[12.0pt] Other forms of identification (e.g., driver's license) will NOT be
[12.0pt] accepted.
[12.0pt] Please come to the seminar room 5-10 minutes early so we can
[12.0pt] scan your ID.
[12.0pt] If you arrive late (2+ minutes after the start time), you can still
[12.0pt] attend the lecture but your ID will not be scanned and your
[12.0pt] attendance will not be verified.
[12.0pt] Reports submitted without verified attendance will receive a score
[12.0pt] of zero.
[12.0pt] Section 700:
[12.0pt] You are expected to
[12.0pt] watch the recordings of all the lectures scheduled during the
[12.0pt] semester, and
[12.0pt] write a report for each of them
[12.0pt] Lecture recordings will be available on Canvas, typically within 2-4
[12.0pt] hours after the lecture ends. You will be able to watch the lecture
[12.0pt] recording at your leisure.
[12.0pt] Report quizzes will also be available on Canvas, typically within 24
[12.0pt] hours after the lecture ends.  Report quizzes require LockDown Browser
[12.0pt] and are time limited (<15 minutes), so be sure to watch the recording in
[12.0pt] advance and take notes.
[12.0pt] Report quizzes must be submitted on Canvas by the end of the week
[12.0pt] (i.e., Sunday midnight).
[12.0pt] Each report quiz will consist of a series of multiple-choice, multiple-
[12.0pt] answer questions related to the contents of the lecture.  The number of
[12.0pt] questions may vary from lecture to lecture depending on the contents of
[12.0pt] the lecture.  The value of each quiz question (i.e., number of points) will
[12.0pt] vary depending on the complexity of the question, and the total score
[12.0pt] will be normalized to a 5-point scale.
[12.0pt bold] Final grade.  Your final grade will be the statistical mean of the top 75% of the
[12.0pt] individual quiz grades, i.e., the lowest 25% of your quiz grades do not count,
[12.0pt] regardless of whether you completed them or not. This gives you a bit of
[12.0pt] flexibility: a few low quiz grades may not affect your grade, and you may miss
[12.0pt] a few unexcused lectures (e.g., you arrived late to class, your battery died,
[12.0pt] connection issues).
[12.0pt] Example: Assume we have 12 lectures during the semester (the actual
[12.0pt] number is likely to be higher). Further, assume you received the following
[12.0pt] scores on the 12 lectures: [5.0, 4.5, 4.5, 4, 4, 4, 4, 3.5, 3.0, 2.0, 0.0, 0.0].
[12.0pt] Your final score will be 4.05, which is the average of the top 75% of your
[12.0pt] grades (i.e., we dropped the lowest 3 scores.)
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[12.0pt] Late work is not accepted under any circumstances.  Please review the
[12.0pt] grading policy.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[12.0pt] The course schedule is available as a  spreadsheet .  Please review
[12.0pt] periodically as new speakers are added throughout the semester.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[12.0pt] ATTENDANCE AND ETIQUETTE (SECTION 600 ONLY)
[12.0pt] Please reserve the entire scheduled time slot, and plan to arrive at least 10
[12.0pt] minutes before the start of the talk, since we will be taking class attendance.
[12.0pt] For this purpose, you are required to have your Aggie ID card with you.
[12.0pt] During the seminar, you are expected to pay attention and refrain from
[12.0pt] activities such as doing other work, reading the newspaper, surfing the web,
[12.0pt] or sleeping. Behavior such as this gives speakers a bad impression of our
[12.0pt] graduate program and students. Students noticed exhibiting such behavior
[12.0pt] will not receive credit for attending that seminar.
[12.0pt] In some cases, the seminars will finish a few minutes early. If the speaker is
[12.0pt] not finished, or if the Q&A period is ongoing, you are expected to stay until
[12.0pt] the end of the talk.
[12.0pt] EXCUSED ABSENCES
[12.0pt] The grading criteria (we drop the bottom 25% of your report grades) avoids
[12.0pt] much of the need to request excused absences. If you want to request an
[12.0pt] excused absence, please follow these steps:
[12.0pt] Go to  Student Rule 7  to determine if your situation is covered, then
[12.0pt] Send an email to  csce-681-rgo@tamu.edu  with:
[12.0pt] A description of your situation, and
[12.0pt] Which provision within Student Rule 7 applies
[12.0pt] Supporting documentation (doctor's note, cover letter, etc.)
[12.0pt] Your request will be reviewed, and you will be notified of its
[12.0pt] approval/rejection via email
[12.0pt] Timeline for submitting excused absences : Per  Student Rule 7 , you must
[12.0pt] make the request prior to the day of absence. If this is not possible, you
[12.0pt] must provide notification by the end of the second business day after the
[12.0pt] last date of the absence, including an explanation of why advance notice
[12.0pt] could not be sent. Requests for excused absences that do not meet these
[12.0pt] guidelines will not be considered.
[12.0pt] Missed lectures with an approved excused absence will not be counted
[12.0pt] towards the final grade. Missed lectures without an approved excused
[12.0pt] absence will receive an automated score of zero.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[12.0pt] Seminar reports containing plagiarized content (including self-plagiarism or
[12.0pt] use of any machine-generated text or translation tools) will be submitted to
[12.0pt] the Aggie Honors Office, with the recommendation that the student receives
[12.0pt] an F* for the course.. Please review the TAMU guidelines for  Academic
[12.0pt] Integrity and Plagiarism .
[12.0pt] Occasionally, we find evidence of plagiarism after the reports have been
[12.0pt] graded. For example, a student may submit a report that has been
[12.0pt] plagiarized from a prior submission, or a prior report may be flagged when a
[12.0pt] new detector of AI-generated text becomes available. For these reasons, you
[12.0pt] should treat grades for seminar reports as provisional. Any prior submission
[12.0pt] that is later found to constitute a violation will be submitted to the Aggie
[12.0pt] Honors Office, with the same recommendation that the student receives an
[12.0pt bold] F* .
[12.0pt] Any information (e.g., a doctor’s note for an excused absences) that is found
[12.0pt] to have been fabricated, falsified and/or misused will be submitted to the
[12.0pt bold] Aggie Honors Office with the recommendation the student receives an  F*  for
[12.0pt] the course.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
Galveston Students:
Technology Services - Help Desk
[10.5pt] E-mail:  Helpdesk@tamug.edu
[10.5pt] Phone: 409-740-4714
[10.5pt] Location: Bldg 3007 (CLB), Rm 113
[10.5pt] Hours: Monday - Friday 7:30am to 6:00pm
[10.5pt bold] Canvas LMS Technical Support
[10.5pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[10.5pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[10.5pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[10.5pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
[10.5pt] navigation menu.
[10.5pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Course Specific Makeup Work Policy
[12.0pt] Makeup work will not be allowed given that the grading policy provides
[12.0pt] flexibility for missed lectures and/or poor grades on certain report quizzes.
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.