<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 483 Syllabus
Section 933 (46417)
Computer Systems Design
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 08:00AM
End Time: 08:25AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  EABA 121
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 08:30AM
End Time: 11:00AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  EABA 121
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Amit Merchant
Email:  amit.merchant@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 112
Phone:  979-458-6817
Office Hours
Fridays 11-12
Preferred Contact Method
email
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Computer Systems Design. (1-6). Credit 3. Engineering design; working as a design-
team member, conceptual design methodology, design evaluations, total project
planning and management techniques, design optimization, systems manufacturing
costs considerations; emphasis placed upon students' activities as design
professionals. Prerequisites: Grade of C or better in CSCE 315 or CSCE 331, and
CSCE 462 or ECEN 449, and ECEN 325; senior classification.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 315 or CSCE 331, and
CSCE 462 or ECEN 449, and ECEN 325; senior classification.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
It is expected that successful participation in the course will allow the student to
demonstrate:
• an ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science, and engineering (3.a)
• an ability to design and conduct experiments, as well as to analyze and interpret
data (3.b)
• an ability to design a system, component, or process to meet desired needs (3.c)
• an ability to function on multi-disciplinary teams (3.d)
• an ability to identify, formulate, and solve engineering problems (3.e)
• an understanding of professional and ethical responsibility (3.f)
• an ability to communicate effectively (3.g)
• an ability to use the techniques, skills, and modern engineering tools necessary for
engineering practice (3.k)
Moreover, course-specific outcomes are
1. understand and utilize the engineering design method to generate potential
solutions to a specific design challenge;
2. understand the basic of project management including: statements of work,
work break-down structures, critical path identification, distribution of tasks,
project tracking and status reporting; be able to generate status reports;
3. understand professional communication methods and techniques including
formal reports and presentations;
4. clearly communicate ideas, status and test results through written reports;
5. clearly communicate through oral presentations.
6. to rigorously define design requirements for potential solutions.
7. understand and incorporate engineering standards and multiple realistic
constraints that include most of the following considerations: economic,
environmental, sustainability, manufacturability, ethical, health and safety,
social and political.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
UCRT - University Required Oral Communication
C (communication-intensive course)
As a communication-intensive course, you will receive instruction on writing and
public speaking and complete assignments so you can practice communication
related to the major. You must pass the written and oral components with a C or
better to earn passing grade in the course.
Failure to pass the communication components with a C or better results in an F for
the course.
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
The Pentium Chronicles
Authors:  Robert P. Colwell
Publisher:  Wiley-IEEE Computer Society Press
Publication Date:  2006-01-01
Notes:
I worked on this project from start to end, including
productization.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
This table captures deliverables, components of those deliverable, skills being
measures, weighting
Deliverables
Components
What skills are we
measuring through this
deliverable? (this is just FYI)
Weighting   When Due
1 Status
Reports
Progress: What was
completed this week,
Goals: What is planned
for next week, Issues:
What are the key
issues/challenges that
the project faces,
Schedule: Are we on
schedule for completion
of intermediate
milestones/final
milestone
Written Communication,
Oral Communication,
Project Management,
Problem Identification,
Problem Decomposition,
Stakeholder (customer)
management
20%
Written
report due
every
Monday
11:59 PM,
Oral report
per
schedule in
class hours
on MW
2 Minimum
Viable
Product
Definition
Define scope of first
product output, define
completion date (usually
no further out than 7
weeks into semester),
define how much testing
you will do, define how
different personas
(atleast 2, preferably 3)
will use the product
Written Communication,
Problem
Identification/Definition,
Knowledge acquisition,
Stakeholder
communication, Scoping
5%
Due
Monday
11:59PM, 4
weeks from
first day of
class
3 Minimum
Viable
Product
Completion
MVP alignment to
definition, demonstrate
functionality, discuss
testing methods and
coverage
Core Software Skills,
Problem Solving, Testing
5%
Due based
on date you
define in
Milestone
#2
4 Final Product
Definition
Define scope of final
product output, define
completion date (usually
no further out than last
week of semester),
define how much testing
you will do, define how
different personas
(atleast 2, preferably 3)
will use the product
Written Communication,
Problem
Identification/Definition,
Knowledge acquisition,
Stakeholder
communication, Scoping
5%
Due
Monday, 7
weeks from
first day of
class,
extension of
no more
than a week
based on
approval
from
instructor
5 Change
Management
Keep track of what
changes are required for
the project based on
learning, what changes
were approved by
stakeholders, and how
that changes the shape of
the final product
Scoping, Project
Management, Problem
Identification, Problem
Decomposition, Problem
Solving, Experimentation,
Testing
5%
Start
keeping log
after #4 has
been
presented
and
approved.
Final log to
be reviewed
1 week
before final
product is
due.
6 Design
Constraints
& Impact
Analysis
Summarize key design
constraints (cost,
schedule, safety, ethics,
privacy/security,
maintainability,
sustainability as
applicable). Explain
trade-offs and how
constraints shaped your
architecture and
implementation
decisions.
Design under constraints,
Professional
responsibility/ethics,
Stakeholder
communication, Risk
management, Systems
thinking
5%
Due
Monday, 8
weeks from
first day of
class (or 1
week after
Final
Product
Definition);
included in
final report
as updated
section
7 Verification
& Validation
(V&V) Plan +
Results
Create a test/validation
plan: requirements-to-
tests traceability, test
strategy
(unit/integration/system),
success metrics, and data
collection. Update with
results and lessons
learned at final
submission.
Testing,
Experimentation/validation,
Data interpretation,
Problem solving, Quality
assurance, Iteration
5%
Plan due
Monday, 5
weeks from
first day of
class;
Results
update due
with Final
Product
Completion
8 FInal Product
Completion
Product alignment to
definition, demonstrate
functionality with respect
to defined personas,
discuss testing methods
and coverage, discuss
gaps
Core Software Skills,
Problem Solving, Testing
25%
Last week of
semester or
earlier
9 Poster
Preparation
and
Presentation
Poster Quality,
Presentation to audience
Written Communication,
Oral Communication,
Teamwork
5%
Per schedule
of Poster
presentation
10Ethics
CITI training completion,
classroom discussion +
short reflection on
ethical/professional
considerations (privacy,
bias, safety, IP).
Ethics, Professional
responsibility, Societal
impact
5%
CITI training
to be
complete
within 2
weeks of
start of
class, 1 class
room
discussion
11Reading
material
classroom
discussion
Read material from
provided text, be ready
to discuss in class
(discussions will be
scheduled), provide
insightful input during
class discussion,
constructive criticism of
opinions presented
Oral communication,
Analysis and Application,
Knowledge acquisition
5%
3 classroom
sessions of
30 minutes
each will be
scheduled
between
weeks 2 and
10.
Participate
in those
discussions.
12Personal
Contribution
and Peer
feedback
Your ability to function
within a team
collaboratively, your
willingness to extend
when needed, your
ability to lead when
required, your ability to
follow when required,
your ability to
communicate frankly but
constructively, your
personal contribution to
the project
Teamwork, Ethics
10%
2 to 3 online
feedbacks
will be
planned and
Instructor
will share
observations
with each
student
Total:
100%
Table capture weighting, deliverables
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
• No late submission of reports, milestones or code from published dates.
• If there is a good reason, we need to talk during class hours. You need to
document and send email to myself and the TA. I will respond with an
explicit approval.
• If you or your team submits a milestone late without approval you will lose
the following % points from your awarded score:
• Late by no more than 3 days, 80% of max awarded score
• Late by 3+ days but no more than 1 week, 60% of max awarded
score
• Late by 1 week but no more than 2 weeks, 40% of max awarded
score
• Late by 2 weeks but no more than 3 weeks, 20% of max awarded
score
• Late by greater than 3 weeks, 0%
• Final milestone and poster milestone cannot be late. Zero for delayed final
milestone and poster milestone submission.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[11.0pt bold] January 2026*
[11.0pt bold] Mon, Jan 26: Status Report #1 due (11:59 PM)
[11.0pt bold] CITI completion due (recommended checkpoint)
[11.0pt bold] Mon, Feb 2:  Status Report #2 due (11:59 PM)
[11.0pt bold] February 2026*
[11.0pt bold] Mon, Feb 9: Status Report #3 due (11:59 PM)
[11.0pt bold] Minimum Viable Product Definition due
[11.0pt bold] Fri, Feb 13:  Spring Graduation Deadline  (admin date)
[11.0pt bold] Mon, Feb 16: Status Report #4 due (11:59 PM)
[11.0pt bold] Verificiation and Validation Plan due
[11.0pt bold] Mon, Feb 23: Status Report #5 due (11:59 PM)
[11.0pt bold] Minimum Viable Product Demos Window Open
[11.0pt bold] March 2026*
[11.0pt bold] Mon, Mar 2: Status Report #6 due (11:59 PM)
[11.0pt bold] MVP Due
[11.0pt bold] Wed, Mar 4:
[11.0pt bold] Last date for Minimum Viable Product Demos
[11.0pt bold] Mon, Mar 9:  No Status Report  (Spring Break week)
[11.0pt bold] Mon, Mar 16: Status Report #7 due (11:59 PM)
[11.0pt bold] Final Product Definition due
[11.0pt bold] Mon, Mar 23:  Status Report #8 due (11:59 PM)
[11.0pt bold] Mon, Mar 30: Status Report #9 due (11:59 PM)
[11.0pt bold] Design Constraints and Impact Analysis Report due
[11.0pt bold] April 2026*
[11.0pt bold] Mon, Apr 6:  Status Report #10 due (11:59 PM)
[11.0pt bold] Mon, Apr 13:  Status Report #11 due (11:59 PM)
[11.0pt bold] Mon, Apr 20:  Status Report #12 due (11:59 PM)
[11.0pt bold] Mon, Apr 27:
[11.0pt bold] Tue, Apr 28:   Last Day of Classes
To be defined at a later date:
Dates for Final Product. Typically between April 20-April 27.
*Some dates may change based on course pacing. Announcements will be made.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
•All detected plagiarism, cheating, and complicity will be reported to the Aggie Honor
System Office.
•The sanction is a zero on the assignment and a letter grade reduction for a single
infraction.
•The sanction can be a letter grade F or F* for a pattern of infractions.
•Academic dishonesty will not be tolerated. For assignments, such as status reports
or poster creation, the group is expected to write their material. Do not use AI
tools! Not even for polishing your report or correcting grammar. Use
spellcheckers and grammar checkers in document editors.
•Students should not have another person/entity do the writing of any portion
of any assignment for them, which includes hiring a person or a company to write
assignments and using artificial intelligence tools like ChatGPT, Gemini.
•Every student should understand that complicity – helping or attempting to help
another student commit an act of academic dishonesty – also constitutes
academic dishonesty and carries the same punishment as cheating and
plagiarism.
•Example if you have direct knowledge that another person on the class is
using AI tools for unapproved work, and you do not report it immediately,
you will be subject to the same sanction as the individual committing
plagiarism or unauthorized access of AI tools.
•Use of Chatgpt for coding: If you plan to use chatgpt to write any part of your code,
you need to discuss it with me, make clear and cogent arguments why this is the
best use of the team’s time, and we need to come to an agreement, this has to
be clearly documented.
•Use of Chatgpt for search and exploration is permitted. However, no code should be
generated. No reports should be generated. No cut-and-paste should be
employed. Any data should be retrieved from the original source.
•You should setup explicit guardrails (boundaries) that ensure there is “no creep”
i.e. gradual increase the footprint of chatgpt code as the project progresses,
beyond predefined boundaries.
•You need to email to me with all team members and get an approval from me (the
instructor). This cannot be done post “the act” of AI use. That will be treated as
an infraction.
•Example scenario: I will allow use of AI for a very limited number of use cases
where the code being generated is not fundamental or core to the project
success, but is ancillary or plays a supporting role. An example maybe
generating the use of a UI, where the core of the project is not UI. Again, this has
to be discussed and preapproved!
•When in doubt discuss with your TA or instructor.
•Always ensure proper, timely approvals of exceptions.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
Galveston Students:
Technology Services - Help Desk
[10.5pt] E-mail:  Helpdesk@tamug.edu
[10.5pt] Phone: 409-740-4714
[10.5pt] Location: Bldg 3007 (CLB), Rm 113
[10.5pt] Hours: Monday - Friday 7:30am to 6:00pm
[10.5pt bold] Canvas LMS Technical Support
[10.5pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[10.5pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[10.5pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[10.5pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
[10.5pt] navigation menu.
[10.5pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
Each student gets 3 free absences from attendance If you miss more than 3 class
room sessions and you do not have a medical excuse or critical personal excuse,
documented and approved, 1% of total score will be deducted per missed
absence above this limit.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Course Specific Makeup Work Policy
Since this is a team and project based course there is no makeup policy. For special
situations talk to the Instructor and get approved makeup assignments.
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.