<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 676 Syllabus
Section 700 (59910)
Data Mining and Analysis
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days:
Start Time: N/A
End Time: N/A
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ONLINE ONLINE
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
James Caverlee
Email:  caverlee@tamu.edu
Office Location:  Peterson 338
Phone:  979-458-3870
Office Hours
TBD
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Data Mining and Analysis. (3-0). Credit 3. Broad overview of data mining, integrating
related concepts from machine learning and statistics; exploratory data analysis,
pattern mining, clustering and classification; applications to scientific and online
data. Cross-listed with ECEN 758 and STAT 639.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
I expect all students to have had some previous exposure to basic probability,
statistics, algorithms, and data structures. You should be able to design and
develop large programs and learn new software libraries on your own.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Define and explain the key concepts and models relevant to data mining and
analysis, including data
preparation, normalization, dimensionality reduction, text mining, and so on.
Design, implement, and evaluate data mining algorithms like associate rules,
clustering, anomaly detection, and do so on modern scalable cloud
computing platforms (e.g., Spark).
Identify the salient features and apply recent research results in data mining,
including topics such as graph mining, and large-scale mining.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Course readings will be drawn from a variety of online
textbooks, scholarly papers, and other resources. One
important textbook is listed below.
This material Is: Required
Mining of Massive Data Sets
ISBN:  9781108476348
Authors:  Jure Leskovec, Anand Rajaraman, Jeffrey David
Ullman
Publisher:  Cambridge University Press
Publication Date:  2020-01-09
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
10% Weekly Assessments
50% Homework
40% Individual Semester-Long Project
A >= 90, B >= 80 and < 90, C >= 70 and < 80, D >= 60 and < 70, F < 60
Weekly Assessments:  Each week will have one or more short quizzes (typically
true/false, multiple choice) over that week's material. These assessments may be
taken multiple times, with only the highest score kept for grading.
Homework:  We will have homework assignments every week. For the first twelve
weeks, these will be worth 4% of your grade. The 13th homework will be worth 2%
of your grade. All homework assignments will be Python notebooks, with a mix of
programming-based problems, written problems, and other questions (e.g., post a
video in response to a particular query, post a response on a Canvas Discussion).
We also require all students to use an AI-coding assistant  (e.g., Cursor, Cline,
CoPilot, etc.). The future of coding (imho) is 5x or 10x developers who can smartly
use AI to accelerate their productivity. So let’s get started practicing now. We make
no expectations that you have been exposed to Python before, but we do expect
you to come up to speed rapidly.
All homework assignments must be submitted by 11:59pm Central time on the due
date. For the homework assignments, you may talk to any other class member or
work in groups to discuss the problems in a general way. However, your actual
detailed solution must be yours alone. If you do talk to other students, you must
write on your assignment who it is that you discussed the problems with. Your
submitted work must be written solely by you and not contain work directly copied
from others.
Homework Collaboration Clarification:  To clarify, your homework is yours alone and
you are expected to complete each homework independently. Your solution should
be written by you without the direct aid or help of anyone else. However, we believe
that collaboration and team work are important for facilitating learning, so we
encourage you to discuss problems and general problem approaches (but not
actual solutions) with your classmates. If you do have a chat with another student
about a homework problem, you must inform us by writing a note on your
homework submission (e.g., Bob pointed me to the relevant section for problem 3).
The basic rule is that no student should explicitly share a solution with another
student (and thereby circumvent the basic learning process), but it is okay to share
general approaches, directions, and so on. If you feel like you have an issue that
needs clarification, feel free to contact either me or the TA.
[11.0pt bold] Individual Semester-Long Project:  Over the course of the semester, you will work
on a significant data mining project. The project is broken into five major
deliverables:
1. Data Selection (Feb 3)
2. Initial Research Question (Mar 5)
3. Deep Dive (Apr 2)
4. Project Showcase  (week of Apr 20)
5. Final Deliverable (Apr 27)
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late homework assignments will be penalized 1% per hour after the deadline, up to
a maximum of 48 hours. After 48 hours, the assignment will receive a 0. To
illustrate, an assignment submitted at 5:05am will be penalized 6 points (so it will be
graded out of 94, instead of 100).
For the Individual Semester-Long Project, students will have FIVE late days in total
for the first three deliverables -- Data Selection (Feb 3), Initial Research Question
(Mar 5), and Deep Dive (Apr 2). The final two deliverables -- Project Showcase (week
of Apr 20) and Final Deliverable (Apr 27) -- will not be accepted late.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Week 1 :: Course introduction
Week 2 :: Frequent Itemset Mining
Week 3 :: Graph Mining
Week 4 :: Graph Mining and Large-Scale ML
Week 5 :: Large-Scale ML
Week 6 :: Clustering
Week 7 :: Text Mining
Week 8 :: Data Mining and Distributed Computing
Week 9 :: Anomaly Detection
Week 10 :: Graph Embeddings
Week 11 :: Locality-Sensitive Hashing
Week 12 :: Stream Mining
Week 13 :: Hot Topics in Data Mining
Week 14 :: Project Showcase
Week 15 :: Finalize Project Deliverables
Major Project Deadlines:
1. Data Selection (Feb 3)
2. Initial Research Question (Mar 5)
3. Deep Dive (Apr 2)
4. Project Showcase (week of Apr 20)
5. Final Deliverable (Apr 27)
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.