<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Industrial and Systems Engineering
[16.0pt] ISEN 350 Syllabus
Section 902 (26579)
Quality Engineering
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 11:30AM
End Time: 12:20PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ETB 1034
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: F
Start Time: 08:00AM
End Time: 10:30AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ETB 1027
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Quality Engineering. (2-3). Credit 3. Strategic approach to implementing quality,
process and business improvement methods using data analysis tools; total quality
management and six sigma approaches to define, measure, analyze, improve and
control processes; principles of lean engineering; control charts; process capability
analysis; basic metrology, applied statistics, lean principles and process capability.
Prerequisites: Grade of C or better in ISEN 310 and ISEN 230.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
[12.0pt] ISEN 350 will follow a flipped classroom format. Classes will meet on
[12.0pt] Wednesdays, and next week's module will be posted at 1 PM. Weekly
[12.0pt] modules begin with an overview and include lecture videos, a reading
[12.0pt] assignment, a problem set, and a module quiz. Most lecture videos are brief
[12.0pt] —approximately 20 minutes—and are designed to introduce key concepts.
[12.0pt] While they are not comprehensive, they will serve as a foundation for each
[12.0pt] module and will guide your study. Further amplification of the material will be
[12.0pt] found in the textbook, reference materials, and classroom discussions.
[12.0pt] Success in this course requires active engagement. You are fully responsible
[12.0pt] for your own learning and performance. I am here to support and guide you,
[12.0pt] but you must take initiative.
[12.0pt] Wednesday class meetings are for you and will be used to answer questions,
[12.0pt] review critical concepts, work through examples, develop problem-solving
[12.0pt] skills, and discuss problems that are challenging you in \ current problem set.
[12.0pt] These sessions are essential to your understanding of the material and
[12.0pt] performing well in this class.
[12.0pt bold] Lab Attendance is Mandatory to receive credit for a lab. Missing two
[12.0pt bold] labs will result in an F grade in the course.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in ISEN 310 and ISEN 230.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
[12.0pt] Apply Six Sigma methodologies to improve process quality
[12.0pt] Identify waste and reduce non-value-added activities in processes
[12.0pt] Apply statistical concepts and data analytic methods to reduce product
[12.0pt] and service system variability
[12.0pt] Think  critically, develop computer codes, and write technical reports
[12.0pt] Implement the methods and tools of Lean-Six Sigma in engineering
[12.0pt] practice
[12.0pt] Write professional and informative technical reports
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
UWRT - University Required Writing Intensive
[12.0pt] ISEN 350 is now certified as a Writing (W) course. In ISEN 350, you’ll put
[12.0pt] Quality Engineering methods into practice through hands-on lab activities and
[12.0pt] document your findings in professional technical reports. Because this is a
[12.0pt] Writing (W) course, you’ll also develop strong written communication skills
[12.0pt] that are highly valued by employers. Faculty from the ISEN Writing and
[12.0pt] Student Success Center will be available to guide and support you in
[12.0pt] becoming a more confident and effective technical communicator.
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Introduction to Statistical Quality Control
Authors:  Douglas C. Montgomrty
Publisher:  Wiley
Edition:  Eighth
Notes:
[12.0pt] Statistics Capable (hand-held) Calculator: (Ex. TI 84 Plus, TI 89, Nspire, etc.)
[12.0pt bold] is required. Be sure to  bring your calculator to all Lectures & Labs .
[12.0pt] Software:  MATLAB ,  Python  (equivalent programming language),  EXCEL , and
[12.0pt] Minitab. (Minitab instructions provided in Lab)
[12.0pt] Course Materials & Copyright: All documents used in this course are
[12.0pt] copyrighted. The word "documents" means all materials generated for this
[12.0pt] class, including, but not limited to, syllabi,   quizzes, exams, problem sets, slide
[12.0pt] sets, videos, and all materials appearing on the class website or sent to you
[12.0pt] via email. Because these materials are copyrighted, you do not have the right
[12.0pt] to copy or share any of them for any purpose other than your personal
[12.0pt] academic use unless I expressly grant permission
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Course Grading
[12.0pt] Test1
[12.0pt] 27%
[12.0pt] Final Examination
[12.0pt] 27%
[12.0pt] Lab/Projects (Writing)
[12.0pt] 25%
[12.0pt] Module Quizzes
[12.0pt] 10%
[12.0pt] Problem Sets (Writing)
[12.0pt] 10%
[12.0pt] Autobiography (Writing)
[12.0pt] 1%
[12.0pt bold] Course Grade Assignment
[12.0pt] 90% - 100%  A
[12.0pt] 80% - 89.9%  B
[12.0pt] 70% - 79.9%  C
[12.0pt] 60% - 69.9%  D
[12.0pt] Below - 59.9%  F
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[12.0pt] The following late penalties apply:
[12.0pt] 1 day late: 25% deduction
[12.0pt] 2 days late: 50% deduction
[12.0pt] 3 or more days late: Grade of zero
[12.0pt] Plan ahead to avoid penalties.
[12.0pt] Module Quizzes must be submitted on-time for credit.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[12.0pt] Course Meeting Schedule
[12.0pt bold] TITLE
[12.0pt bold] TOPIC
[12.0pt bold] DATE
[12.0pt] Module 1
[12.0pt] Course
[12.0pt] Introduction
[12.0pt] 14-Jan W
[12.0pt] Module 2
[12.0pt] Introduction
[12.0pt] to
[12.0pt] QE
[12.0pt] 21-Jan  W
[12.0pt] Module 3
[12.0pt] Evolution
[12.0pt] of
[12.0pt] Quality
[12.0pt] 28-Jan W
[12.0pt] Lab Introduction
[12.0pt] Lab Procedures
[12.0pt] & Minitab
[12.0pt] 30-Jan F
[12.0pt] Module 4
[12.0pt] Six Sigma
[12.0pt] 4-Feb W
[12.0pt] Lab 1
[12.0pt] Data Analysis
[12.0pt] 6-Feb F
[12.0pt] Module 5
[12.0pt] TPS & Lean
[12.0pt] 11-Feb W
[12.0pt] Lab 2
[12.0pt] Lean Airplane
[12.0pt] 13-Feb F
[12.0pt] Module 6
[12.0pt] Lean & Factory
[12.0pt] Physics
[12.0pt] 18-Feb W
[12.0pt] Lab 3
[12.0pt] Factory Physics
[12.0pt] 20 -Feb F
[12.0pt] Module 7
[12.0pt] Sampling Error
[12.0pt] 25=Feb W
[12.0pt] Lab 4
[12.0pt] Central Limit
[12.0pt] Theorem
[12.0pt] 27-Feb F
[12.0pt bold] Test 1
[12.0pt bold] Modules 1-7
[12.0pt bold] 4-Mar W
[12.0pt] Module 8 & 9
[12.0pt] Control Charts &
[12.0pt] Variables
[12.0pt] 18-Mar  W
[12.0pt] Lab 5
[12.0pt] ARL
[12.0pt] 20-Mar F
[12.0pt] Module 10
[12.0pt] Capability Indices
[12.0pt] 25-Mar W
[12.0pt] Lab 6 MF I
[12.0pt] Mouse Factory 1
[12.0pt] 27-Mar F
[12.0pt] Module 11
[12.0pt] Capability
[12.0pt] Measures
[12.0pt] 1-Apr W
[12.0pt] MF1  Help
[12.0pt] MF
[12.0pt] 1
[12.0pt] Help
[12.0pt] Session
[12.0pt] 3-Apr F
[12.0pt] Module 12
[12.0pt] Capability
[12.0pt] Analysis
[12.0pt] 8-Apr W
[12.0pt] Lab 7 MF 2
[12.0pt] Mouse Factory 2
[12.0pt] 10-Apr F
[12.0pt] Module 13
[12.0pt] Attributers
[12.0pt] 15-Apr W
[12.0pt] MF 2 Help
[12.0pt] MF 2 Help
[12.0pt] Session
[12.0pt] 17-Apr F
[12.0pt] Last
[12.0pt] Class
[12.0pt] Meeting
[12.0pt] Final Review
[12.0pt] 22-Apr W
Examination Schedule
[12.0pt bold] Test 1: Wednesday, March 4, 2026 (Lecture Period)
[12.0pt bold] Test 2: (Final Exam): Tuesday,  May 5, 2026: 10:30 AM – 12:30 PM
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
ISEN Helpdesk
Phone:(979) 458-2384
Email:  isen-helpdesk@tamu.edu
[16.0pt] College and Department Policies
[12.0pt bold] Following Department Policy,  I will request the  Aggie Honor Court  to assign
[12.0pt] a grade of F* for any breach of the Aggie Honor Code, no matter how minimal
[12.0pt] the offense may be.
[12.0pt] Because writing, analysis, and critical thinking are core learning outcomes of
[12.0pt] this course:
[12.0pt] All written work, computer code, and problem-solving assignments must
[12.0pt] be your own work and completed individually
[12.0pt] Collaboration of any kind is not permitted
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
Lab attendance is mandatory to receive credit for the lab assignment. Missing
two lab assignments will result in a final course grade of F.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.