<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 111 Syllabus
Section 505 (50598)
Introduction to Computer Science Concepts and Programming
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 09:35AM
End Time: 10:50AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 244
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 5:45PM
End Time: 6:35PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 596
Credit Hours:  4
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Muhammad Mahmood
Email:  suleman.mahmood@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 109
Phone:  9798452741
Office Hours
See course calendar on canvas
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Introduction to Computer Science Concepts and Programming. (3-2). Credit 4.
Computation to enhance problem solving abilities; understanding how people
communicate with computers, and how computing affects society; computational
thinking; software design principles, including algorithm design, data
representation, abstraction, modularity, structured and object oriented
programming, documentation, testing, portability, and maintenance; understanding
programs’ abilities and limitations; development and execution programs.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Use a text editor to program Java code.
Use a Java compiler to produce executable software.
Identify the basic syntax and semantics of the Java programming language.
Use appropriate commenting, layout, and naming to communicate code intent
Understand the primitive data types built into the Java language.
Understand the concepts of Java classes and objects.
Understand the concepts of lifetime, scope, and the initialization mechanism of
variables.
Implement Java code branching using if or switch statements.
Program loops with while, for, and do statements.
Make use of arrays to store and process lists of data.
Assemble data and methods into classes following the software engineering
principles of encapsulation and data hiding.
Organize Java code following the software engineering principles of modularity
and abstraction.
Create Java I/O interfaces
Read, interpret, analyze, and explain introductory Java programs.
Test and evaluate introductory Java programs
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Java: The Complete Reference
ISBN:  978-1-26-506270-5
Authors:  Herbert Schildt, Dr. Danny Coward
Publisher:  McGraw Hill
Publication Date:  2024
Edition:  13
URL for Resource:  https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/java-the-
complete/9781265062705/
Notes:
Sign in using your university credentials.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[12.9pt] Grading Scale
The grading will be on an absolute scale mentioned below:
Overall Grading Scale
[10.5pt bold] Rounded Total
[10.5pt bold] Letter Grade
Total  ≥  90%
A
80%  ≤   Total  <  9 0%
B
[10.5pt] 70% ≤ Total < 80%
C
[10.5pt] 60% ≤ Total < 70%
D
[10.5pt] Total < 60%
F
[12.9pt] Component Weights
[10.5pt] The grade is calculated based on the following course components:
[10.5pt bold] Course Component Weights
[10.5pt bold] Component
[10.5pt bold] Weight
[10.5pt] Class Activities
[10.5pt] 5%
[10.5pt] Discussion Posts
[10.5pt] 5%
[10.5pt] Reading Quizzes
[10.5pt] 5%
[10.5pt] Homeworks
[10.5pt] 10%
[10.5pt] Lab Assignments
[10.5pt] 15%
[10.5pt] Exam 1
[10.5pt] 15%
[10.5pt] Exam 2
[10.5pt] 20%
[10.5pt] Final Exam
[10.5pt] 25%
[12.9pt] Component Specific Policies
Class Activities
[10.5pt] Class activities will be graded based on participation rather than correctness.
[10.5pt] They will only be available for completion during class time.
[10.5pt] In case of excused absences, the activity will be marked excused. Canvas
[10.5pt] processes excused absences by increasing the weight of the unexcused activities.
[10.5pt] Three unexcused absences are allowed during the semester. This will be
[10.5pt] processed at the end of the semester.
Lab Assignments
[10.5pt] Labs are going to be group activities where attendance is required to earn full
[10.5pt] credit.
[10.5pt] Groups will be assigned in Canvas and will be changed every 4 weeks.
[10.5pt] If you are absent from lab, you can complete the assignment individually with a
[10.5pt] 20% penalty.
[10.5pt] In case of excused absences, lab assignment can be completed individually
[10.5pt] without penalty.
[10.5pt bold] Homework
[10.5pt] Homeworks are individual assignments and must be completed.
[10.5pt] Collaboration with other students and the use of AI tools are strictly prohibited.
Exam 1
[10.5pt] At the end of the semester, Exam 1 score will be replaced by average of all three
[10.5pt] exams if the average is higher.
[10.5pt] This policy allows you to partially offset a low score.
Exam 2
[10.5pt] At the end of the semester, Exam 2 score will be replaced by average of all three
[10.5pt] exams if the average is higher.
[10.5pt] This policy allows you to partially offset a low score.
[12.9pt] Regrade Requests
If you want to challenge any grading, you must do so within one week of grade
release. Regrade period for assignments published after week 13 will be shorter
and will be announced at the time of grade release. There may be no regrading
period for the final exam.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late submissions are only allowed for Homeworks.
There will be 10% per day penalty for late submissions.
There may be no late submission period for the final homework of the
semester.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[12.9pt] Weekly Topics
[10.5pt bold] Weekly Topics
[10.5pt bold] Week
[10.5pt bold] Topic
[10.5pt] 1
[10.5pt] Course Introduction, Variables and Printing
[10.5pt] 2
[10.5pt] Numeric data types, Math library, Characters, Defining simple methods
[10.5pt] 3
[10.5pt] Strings, Formatted Output, Boolean Type and Basic Conditionals
[10.5pt] 4
[10.5pt] Multiple conditions, condition order, nested conditions, loop basics
[10.5pt] 5
[10.5pt] For Loops, Exam 1.
[10.5pt] 6
[10.5pt] Arrays and for loops. Loops patterns with arrays.
[10.5pt] 7
[10.5pt] Multi-dimensional arrays and Debugging.
[10.5pt] 8
[10.5pt] Introduction to Objects. Objects with methods.
[10.5pt] 9
[10.5pt] Spring Break
[10.5pt] 10
[10.5pt] Exam 2. Object Oriented Design, Relations between objects.
[10.5pt] 11
[10.5pt] Dynamic dispatch and access control in object-oriented programming.
[10.5pt] 12
[10.5pt] Practice with object oriented design. Exceptions. Exceptions control flow
[10.5pt] and defining exceptions.
[10.5pt] 13
[10.5pt] File handling and user interfaces for a program.
[10.5pt] 14
[10.5pt] Graphical User Interfaces (GUI)
[10.5pt] 15
[10.5pt] Graphical User Interfaces (GUI) continued
[10.5pt] 16
[10.5pt] Final Exam
[12.9pt] Homework Deadlines
Homeworks will be released on Monday. Typical deadline for the Homeworks will be
Sunday night. Any change will be announced through canvas.
[12.9pt] Lab Assignment Deadlines
[10.5pt] Lab assignments will be released at the start of your weekly lab sessions. The deadline
[10.5pt] for the lab assignment will be midnight the day after the Lab. The assignments are
[10.5pt] designed to be completed within the lab session, but the deadline allows you to seek
[10.5pt] help if you run into any problems. Any changes will be announced through canvas.
[12.9pt] Exam Dates
[10.5pt] Exam 1: Thursday, Feb 12, 2026. In class.
[10.5pt] Exam 2: Thursday, Mar 19, 2026, In class.
[10.5pt] Final Exam: April 30th, 2026, 12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m.
Final exam times are based on the  TAMU official final exam schedule . If there is an
error here, we will adhere to the TAMU official schedule.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[9.8pt] This course assumes that all work submitted by students will be generated by the students
[9.8pt] themselves. Students should not have another person/entity do the writing of any substantive
[9.8pt] portion of an assignment for them, which includes hiring a person or a company to write
[9.8pt] assignments and using artificial intelligence tools like ChatGPT.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] Learning Resources
[12.9pt] Canvas
[10.5pt] Dashboard for the entire course. This will link out to appropriate resources.
[12.9pt] Campuswire
Campuswire will be the main forum to get help with homework and lab
activities.
You will be added to the discussion forum at the start of the semester.
Whenever possible, post your questions publicly so that all students can
benefit from it. Please do not post your code and solutions in public posts.
Public posts can also be answered by other students so you should have a
shorter response time for them.
We will endorse good student responses.
You have the option to post anonymously. Your post will only be anonymous
to students. Instructors will be able to see your name and id on the posts.
Please be respectful.
Private messages can be posed to all instructors or an individual instructor.
Private messages to individual instructors are more likely to be overlooked
and should not be used. Send an email directly to the instructor.
Posts directed to instructors that would benefit the entire class and should
be visible to all students will be updated so that the post is visible by the
entire class.
[12.9pt] Google Drive
[10.5pt] Google folder will be used to share lecture notes and in-class examples. You must be
[10.5pt] logged into your TAMU Google account to access these materials or submit Google
[10.5pt] Forms. Your TAMU Google account will have to be the default account in your browser,
[10.5pt] or you can open an incognito window and log in from there. It might take up to 24 hours
[10.5pt] after registering for the class to be able to access materials in the Google shared folder.
[12.9pt] Zoom
Zoom will be used for online office hours, and meetings with instructors and teaching
assistants. Links will be provided as needed.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.