<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 614 Syllabus
Section 700 (54779)
Computer Architecture
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days:
Start Time: N/A
End Time: N/A
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ONLINE ONLINE
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
EJ Kim
Email:  ejkim@tamu.edu
Office Location:  208 Peterson Building
Phone:  (979) 845-3660
Office Hours
30 mins right after class
Preferred Contact Method
email
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Computer Architecture. (3-0). Credit 3. Reviews of von Neumann architecture and
its limitations; parallel computer structures and concurrent computation; pipeline
computers and vectorization methods; array processors, multiprocessor
architectures and programming; dataflow computers. Prerequisite: CSCE 350, ECEN
350, or CSCE 312; background in undergraduate computer engineering or
computer science.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  CSCE 350/ECEN 350, ECEN 350/CSCE 350, or
CSCE 312; background in undergraduate computer engineering or computer
science.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
[12.0pt] The main objective of this course is to provide an opportunity for students to
[12.0pt] learn about computer architecture with an emphasis on microprocessor
[12.0pt] microarchitecture. Upon successful completion of the course, a student will
[12.0pt] be able to:
[12.0pt] Understand microarchitecture of modern computing systems
[12.0pt] Understand how software and hardware cooperate to run programs
[12.0pt] Design hardware enhancements to improve the performance and
[12.0pt] analyze the performance of different implementations
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Computer Architecture
ISBN:  9780128119068
Authors:  John L. Hennessy, David A. Patterson
Publisher:  Morgan Kaufmann
Publication Date:  2017-11-23
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[12.0pt] Grading Scale
[12.0pt] Standard Letter Grading Scale:
[12.0pt] A = 90-100%
[12.0pt] B = 80-89%
[12.0pt] C = 70-79%
[12.0pt] D = 60-69%
[12.0pt] F = <60%
[12.0pt] The course consists of lectures, reading, homework, project and exams. The
[12.0pt] grade will be computed as follows:
[12.0pt] Midterm 25 %
[12.0pt] Final Exam 25 %
[12.0pt] Term Project 25 %
[12.0pt] Homework & Class Participation 25 %
[12.0pt] Exams: The midterm examination will be held on Friday, March 6 from
[12.0pt] 10:10-11:20 a.m. The final examination will be held on Monday, May 4 from
[12.0pt] 8:00-10:00 a.m. following the University schedule. The exams will cover all
[12.0pt] material up to that point, so you are responsible for mastering all homework
[12.0pt] material. All exams will be closed book and closed notes (unless otherwise
[12.0pt] stated).
[12.0pt] Proctored Testing: If you are off-campus, please locate a suitable testing
[12.0pt] center and email the instructor for approval. You must schedule your exam
[12.0pt] during the designated Central Time slot, regardless of your local time zone.
[12.0pt] Once your appointment is confirmed, notify us so we can coordinate with the
[12.0pt] center. Exam materials will be sent to the center 1–2 days before the exam
[12.0pt] date. Typically, the center will print the exam, and you will complete it on
[12.0pt] paper. If the testing center encounters any issues with this arrangement,
[12.0pt] inform us immediately.
[12.0pt] If you are on campus, you may take the exam in person with the Section 600
[12.0pt] students.
[12.0pt] We will gather information regarding your preferred exam setup. Please
[12.0pt] complete the following
[12.0pt] survey( https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeUzS764XszrwtISAlfVR
[12.0pt] 6RJR48GbGTAX9g_PCT17xwsh_UBQ/viewform?usp=header   ) by 13th
[12.0pt] Feb. 2026, to indicate your choice:
[12.0pt] Take the exam in person.
[12.0pt] Take the exam at a Testing Center.
[12.0pt] Assignments: Homework will be assigned as lecture topics are completed.
[12.0pt] Reading assignments will be assigned associated with lecture topics.
[12.0pt] Assignments will be released on the canvas. The correct approach is to start
[12.0pt] working on assignments as early as possible and contact the instructor or TA
[12.0pt] when you encounter difficulties. In general, the closer to the deadline you
[12.0pt] request our assistance, the harder it may be to obtain our help.
[12.0pt] Submission of Work: All assignments deliverables must be submitted
[12.0pt] electronically, by the due date, through Canvas (unless otherwise specified).
[12.0pt] Late assignments are not going to be accepted in general, unless a
[12.0pt] University sanctioned excuse is provided ahead of time. A student will earn
[12.0pt] points when he/she submits the assignment on time, by the partial credit
[12.0pt] policy. Note that email submissions will not be accepted (they will be ignored
[12.0pt] without notice). You have to follow the submission and media policies and
[12.0pt] guidelines published on the web.
[12.0pt] Re-grading Policy: A student can request re-grading of assignments and
[12.0pt] exams, if he/she believes that the points assigned are inconsistent with the
[12.0pt] quality and merits of the submitted work. To request re-grading you have to
[12.0pt] follow the guidelines below.
[12.0pt] 1.  Regrading requests must be submitted AT MOST ONE WEEK AFTER
[12.0pt] the item has been graded and returned to the student and solutions have
[12.0pt] been made public. After this time limit NO re-grading requests will be
[12.0pt] honored.
[12.0pt] 2.  Re-grading requests must be as specific as possible and must be
[12.0pt] accompanied by a reasonable amount of justification and documentation.
[12.0pt] Requests must be in written form for major assignments and exams.
[12.0pt] 3.  E-mails must be sent to TAs and graders or the instructor within the one
[12.0pt] week time limit.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[12.0pt] Late work will not be accepted in general. Turn in all work by the established
[12.0pt] deadline. In case you have difficulties finishing an assignment, contact the
[12.0pt] TA or the instructor before the deadline. Late work can be accepted only
[12.0pt] under documented circumstances beyond the student's control and if
[12.0pt] possible by prior arrangement with the Instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[12.0pt] Schedule
[12.0pt bold] Week   Topic
[12.0pt bold] Readings for
[12.0pt bold] Next Time
[12.0pt bold] Out
[12.0pt bold] In (Due)
[12.0pt] 1-2
[12.0pt] Introduction & Chap.
[12.0pt] 1/App.A
[12.0pt] Chapter 1,
[12.0pt] Appendix A
[12.0pt] HW1
[12.0pt] 3
[12.0pt] App. C
[12.0pt] Appendix C
[12.0pt] HW1
[12.0pt] 4
[12.0pt] Chap. 3 ILP- Branch
[12.0pt] Predictor
[12.0pt] Chapter 3
[12.0pt] HW2
[12.0pt] 5-6
[12.0pt] Chap. 3 ILP -
[12.0pt] Scheduling
[12.0pt] Chapter 3
[12.0pt] 7
[12.0pt] Chap.3 ILP-Hardware
[12.0pt] Speculation, Midterm   Chapter 3
[12.0pt] Project
[12.0pt] ProposalHW3   HW2
[12.0pt] 8
[12.0pt] App.B
[12.0pt] Appendix B
[12.0pt] HW3
[12.0pt] 9
[12.0pt] Chap. 2 Memory
[12.0pt] Basics/App.B
[12.0pt] Chapter 2
[12.0pt] HW4
[12.0pt] Proposal
[12.0pt] 10
[12.0pt] Chap. 2 Memory
[12.0pt] Optimization
[12.0pt] Chapter 2
[12.0pt] 11
[12.0pt] Chap. 2 TLB/Vitual
[12.0pt] Memory
[12.0pt] Chapter 2
[12.0pt] 12
[12.0pt] Chap. 4 SIMD
[12.0pt] Chapter 4
[12.0pt] HW4
[12.0pt] 13
[12.0pt] Chap. 4 SIMD-GPU
[12.0pt] Chapter 4
[12.0pt] HW5
[12.0pt] 14
[12.0pt] Chap. 5 TLP
[12.0pt] Chapter 5
[12.0pt] 15
[12.0pt] Chap. 5 Cache
[12.0pt] Coherence
[12.0pt] Chapter 5
[12.0pt] HW5
[12.0pt] 16
[12.0pt] Final Exam
[12.0pt] Term
[12.0pt] Paper
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
N/A
[16.0pt] AI Statement
With the emergence of artificial intelligence (AI) technologies, the ways in which we
define our creative processes continue to transform. The presence of such tools,
however, does not replace our need to learn how to draft, revise, and reflect on
texts, programs, and lectures, as well as how to exercise information literacy and
personal responsibility in how we locate, evaluate, incorporate, and cite primary or
secondary sources.
Overall, education includes preparing leaders to be the innovators and leaders of
tomorrow. That means we need to learn to use emerging technologies responsibly.
Therefore, generative AI tools (e.g., ChatGPT, Google, Bard, Dall-E 2) is permitted on
assignments in this course if you wish to use them. AI is not intended to do all the
work for you but rather to get you started with ideas or to provide feedback on your
progress.
To adhere to scholarly values, cite any AI-generated material that informed your
work (this includes in-text citations and/or use of quotations, and in a reference list).
Using an AI tool to generate content without proper attribution qualifies as
academic dishonesty. As a general rule, no more than 30% of an assignment should
come directly from text generated from an AI tool. For an example of how to cite a
generative AI tool using APA 7th edition, see the APA Style Blog for the correct way
to cite ChatGPT. You would use this citation within the text (body of your
paper/assignment) and for your references list.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
Galveston Students:
Technology Services - Help Desk
[10.5pt] E-mail:  Helpdesk@tamug.edu
[10.5pt] Phone: 409-740-4714
[10.5pt] Location: Bldg 3007 (CLB), Rm 113
[10.5pt] Hours: Monday - Friday 7:30am to 6:00pm
[10.5pt bold] Canvas LMS Technical Support
[10.5pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[10.5pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[10.5pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[10.5pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
[10.5pt] navigation menu.
[10.5pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.