<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 713 Syllabus
Section 600 (58633)
Software Security
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MWF
Start Time: 08:00AM
End Time: 08:50AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  EABB 106
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Marcus Botacin
Email:  botacin@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 224
Phone:  (979) 458-6850
Office Hours
MWF 9AM (right after the class)
Preferred Contact Method
By email
Webpage:  https://marcusbotacin.github.io/
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Software Security. (3-0). Credit 3. Basic principles of design and implementation of
secure software, code reviews including tool-assisted review by static and dynamic
analysis, risk analysis and management, and methods for software security testing.
Prerequisites: CSCE 431 or CSCE 606 or approval of instructor; graduate
classification.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  CSCE 431 or CSCE 606 or approval of instructor;
graduate classification.
CSCE 431 or CSCE 606 or approval of instructor; graduate classification.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
[11.0pt bold] list  the first principles of security and  explain  why each is important to
security and how it enables the development of security mechanisms that
can implement desired security policies.
[11.0pt bold] identify  specific principles that have been violated in common security
failures.
[11.0pt bold] identify  appropriate design principles to apply in each software development
scenario.
[11.0pt bold] explain  the interaction between security and system usability and
importance of human-computer interfaces to system usability.
[11.0pt bold] explain  the importance of secure software and the programming practices,
development processes, and methodologies that lead to secure software.
[11.0pt bold] explain  techniques for specifying program behavior, the classes of well-
known defects, and how they manifest themselves in various languages.
[11.0pt bold] perform  penetration testing on previously unknown software.
[11.0pt bold] analyze  existing source code for functional correctness.
[11.0pt bold] analyze  software for defects using industry standard tools.
[11.0pt bold] develop  test cases that demonstrate the existence of defects.
[11.0pt bold] develop  defect-free software components that satisfy their functional
requirements.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Optional
Provided by the Instructor
Notes:
No textbook is required. All materials will be posted on the class website (Canvas). Students
should expect to run security tools on their own machines. This course follows the minimum
device requirements established by the College of Engineering
( https://engineering.tamu.edu/academics/byod/devices/index.html ).
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
The grading is composed of:
Vulnerabilities PoC* (Individual): 50%
First project** (*Groups of 4 students): 25%
Final project*** (*Groups of 4 students): 25%
*Group size might be adjusted to accommodate a large number of students
enrolled in the course, at the instructor’s discretion. Ask for permission.
Independent-Study Reports**** (optional, individual): +10%
No written exam, no quiz.
Total: 100%
[11.0pt bold] *Vulnerabilities PoC
Students are required to deliver PoCs for the vulnerabilities explained in class by the
instructor. PoCs should be an end-to-end exploit of the sample applications provided
by the instructor.
The PoC is considered successful if it meets all the requirements below:
The student delivers a source code for the PoC.
The student delivers a video demonstrating the exploitation at the student
machine.
The exploitation can be reproduced by the instructor/TA.
[11.0pt bold] **First Project
Each group should:
Students should identify and exploit an exploitable Web vulnerability in a
Web-based project available on GitHub.
The vulnerability should not have been reported before in any sense (i.e., no
known CVEs)
The students should responsibly disclose the vulnerabilities to the project
creators according to the instructions provided in the lecture on the topic.
Projects without proper disclosure will not be considered.
The exploitation should be done locally (e.g., in Docker) and not in a live
system. Exploitation attempts causing actual harm will not be allowed.
The students should deliver a PoC and a video for the exploitation, as with
the traditional PoC assignments.
The students should deliver a presentation report in class on the final
project dates.
[11.0pt bold] ***Final Project
Each group should:
Students should identify and exploit an exploitable non-Web vulnerability in
a real application,
Web applications are not valid for the final project.
The same rules as for the First project apply.
[11.0pt bold] **** Independent Self-Study
Students are encouraged to deliver a 1-page summary of known vulnerabilities from
the literature, upon the instructor’s suggestion. The evaluation is as follows:
Identifying pre-conditions: 10%
Technical Explanation: 50%
Remediation Explanation: 30%
Contextualization with other class topics: 10%
Topics:
The topics will include vulnerabilities pointed out by the instructor in Canvas
and all final project presentations by all teams.
Grading Scale
[11.0pt bold] Grading Scale
90% <= A
80% <= B < 89%
70% <= C < 79%
60% <= D < 69%
F <60%
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Extensions/make-ups can be given 12 hours prior to the deadline upon written/in-person
justification request. 20min will be given as a grace period. Otherwise, 50% off from the
credit you got for that submission.
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not considered late
work and is exempted from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[10.0pt] The course schedule is as follows (course topics are provisional)
[10.0pt] All assignments are due at 11:59 PM on the due date unless specified.
Tentative Schedule
[10.0pt] Date
[10.0pt] Class
[10.0pt] (#)
[10.0pt] Topic
[10.0pt] SubTopic
[10.0pt] Activity
[10.0pt] Deadline
[10.0pt] 12/Jan
[10.0pt] 1
[10.0pt] Introduction
[10.0pt] to Security
[10.0pt] What is
[10.0pt] Security: ACID
[10.0pt] Properties
[10.0pt] Project
[10.0pt] Submission
[10.0pt] Opens
[10.0pt] 14/Jan
[10.0pt] 2
[10.0pt] Web Security
[10.0pt] OWASP Top-
[10.0pt] 10 Web,
[10.0pt] Directory
[10.0pt] traversal, and
[10.0pt] Google Dorks
[10.0pt] Web
[10.0pt] Assignment
[10.0pt] Opens
[10.0pt] 16/Jan
[10.0pt] 3
[10.0pt] Replay
[10.0pt] Attacks,
[10.0pt] Authentication
[10.0pt] Failures, and
[10.0pt] Web
[10.0pt] Vulnerability
[10.0pt] Scanners
[10.0pt] 19/Jan
[10.0pt] No
[10.0pt] Classes
[10.0pt] 21/Jan
[10.0pt] 4
[10.0pt] Cross-Site
[10.0pt] Scripting
[10.0pt] (XSS)
[10.0pt] 23/Jan
[10.0pt] 5
[10.0pt] SQL Injection
[10.0pt] 26/Jan
[10.0pt] 6
[10.0pt] Network
[10.0pt] Security
[10.0pt] Man-In-The-
[10.0pt] Middle (MITM)
[10.0pt] Attacks
[10.0pt] Network
[10.0pt] Assignment
[10.0pt] Opens
[10.0pt] Web
[10.0pt] Assignment
[10.0pt] Deadline
[10.0pt] 28/Jan
[10.0pt] 7
[10.0pt] MITM with
[10.0pt] ARP Spoofing
[10.0pt] 30/Jan
[10.0pt] 8
[10.0pt] Services open
[10.0pt] to the internet
[10.0pt] and Service
[10.0pt] Discovery
[10.0pt] 2/Feb
[10.0pt] 9
[10.0pt] Port Scanning
[10.0pt] and Port
[10.0pt] Knocking
[10.0pt] 4/Feb
[10.0pt] 10
[10.0pt] Honeypots
[10.0pt] 6/Feb
[10.0pt] 11
[10.0pt] Mobile Apps
[10.0pt] Security
[10.0pt] OWASP Top-
[10.0pt] 10 Mobile
[10.0pt] Mobile
[10.0pt] Assignment
[10.0pt] Opens
[10.0pt] Network
[10.0pt] Assignment
[10.0pt] Deadline
[10.0pt] 9/Feb
[10.0pt] 12
[10.0pt] App
[10.0pt] Repackaging
[10.0pt] and Smali
[10.0pt] code
[10.0pt] 11/Feb
[10.0pt] 13
[10.0pt] Application
[10.0pt] Security
[10.0pt] CVEs,
[10.0pt] Outdated
[10.0pt] software, and
[10.0pt] ExploitDB
[10.0pt] Binary
[10.0pt] Assignment
[10.0pt] Opens
[10.0pt] Mobile
[10.0pt] Assignment
[10.0pt] Deadline
[10.0pt] 13/Feb
[10.0pt] 14
[10.0pt] Responsible
[10.0pt] Disclosure
[10.0pt] 16/Feb
[10.0pt] 15
[10.0pt] Recap on ABIs
[10.0pt] and OS
[10.0pt] 18/Feb
[10.0pt] 16
[10.0pt] Buffer
[10.0pt] Overflows
[10.0pt] 20/Feb
[10.0pt] 17
[10.0pt] Ret2LibC
[10.0pt] 23/Feb
[10.0pt] 18
[10.0pt] Return-
[10.0pt] Oriented
[10.0pt] Programming
[10.0pt] (ROP)
[10.0pt] 25/Feb
[10.0pt] 19
[10.0pt] Shellcode
[10.0pt] Development
[10.0pt] 27/Feb
[10.0pt] 20
[10.0pt] Metasploit
[10.0pt] 2/Mar
[10.0pt] 21
[10.0pt] ROP
[10.0pt] Defenses
[10.0pt] 4/Mar
[10.0pt] 22
[10.0pt] Malware
[10.0pt] Rootkits and
[10.0pt] LD PRELOAD
[10.0pt] Rootkit
[10.0pt] assignment
[10.0pt] Opens
[10.0pt] Binary
[10.0pt] Assignment
[10.0pt] Deadline
[10.0pt] 6/Mar
[10.0pt] 23
[10.0pt] Detection with
[10.0pt] YARA rules
[10.0pt] First Project
[10.0pt] 9/Mar
[10.0pt] No
[10.0pt] Classes
[10.0pt] Spring Break
[10.0pt] 11/Mar
[10.0pt] No
[10.0pt] Classes
[10.0pt] Spring Break
[10.0pt] 13/Mar
[10.0pt] No
[10.0pt] Classes
[10.0pt] Spring Break
[10.0pt] 15/Mar
[10.0pt] 24
[10.0pt] Crypto Misc.
[10.0pt] Password
[10.0pt] Cracking,
[10.0pt] Rainbow
[10.0pt] Tables, and
[10.0pt] Salting
[10.0pt] Password
[10.0pt] Cracking
[10.0pt] Assignment
[10.0pt] Opens
[10.0pt] Rootkit
[10.0pt] assignment
[10.0pt] Deadline
[10.0pt] 18/Mar
[10.0pt] 25
[10.0pt] Pseudo RNGs
[10.0pt] and
[10.0pt] Ransomware
[10.0pt] Key Recovery
[10.0pt] 20/Mar
[10.0pt] 26
[10.0pt] Tools
[10.0pt] Vulnerability
[10.0pt] Scanners and
[10.0pt] Static
[10.0pt] Analyzers
[10.0pt] Trace
[10.0pt] Assignment
[10.0pt] Opens
[10.0pt] Password
[10.0pt] Cracking
[10.0pt] Assignment
[10.0pt] Deadline
[10.0pt] 23/Mar
[10.0pt] 27
[10.0pt] Fuzzing for
[10.0pt] Bug Finding
[10.0pt] with AFL
[10.0pt] 25/Mar
[10.0pt] 28
[10.0pt] Symbolic
[10.0pt] Execution with
[10.0pt] Angr
[10.0pt] 27/Mar
[10.0pt] 29
[10.0pt] Syscall
[10.0pt] Tracing with
[10.0pt] Strace
[10.0pt] 30/Mar
[10.0pt] 30
[10.0pt] Function
[10.0pt] Tracing with
[10.0pt] Ltrace
[10.0pt] 1/Apr
[10.0pt] 31
[10.0pt] Debugging
[10.0pt] Debugging
[10.0pt] with GDB and
[10.0pt] its extensions
[10.0pt] Debugging
[10.0pt] Assignment
[10.0pt] Opens
[10.0pt] Trace
[10.0pt] Assignment
[10.0pt] Deadline
[10.0pt] 3/Apr
[10.0pt] No
[10.0pt] Classes
[10.0pt] Reading Day
[10.0pt] 6/Apr
[10.0pt] 32
[10.0pt] Creating a
[10.0pt] Debugger with
[10.0pt] PTRACE (1/2)
[10.0pt] 8/Apr
[10.0pt] 33
[10.0pt] Creating a
[10.0pt] Debugger with
[10.0pt] PTRACE (2/2)
[10.0pt] 10/Apr
[10.0pt] 34
[10.0pt] Performance
[10.0pt] and
[10.0pt] Architecture
[10.0pt] Performance-
[10.0pt] based Tracing
[10.0pt] with Linux Perf
[10.0pt] Debugging
[10.0pt] Assignment
[10.0pt] Deadline
[10.0pt] 13/Apr
[10.0pt] 35
[10.0pt] Side Channel
[10.0pt] Attacks
[10.0pt] 15/Apr
[10.0pt] 36
[10.0pt] Supply Chain
[10.0pt] Attacks
[10.0pt] SBOM tools
[10.0pt] Final
[10.0pt] Project
[10.0pt] 17/Apr
[10.0pt] 37
[10.0pt] Project
[10.0pt] Presentations
[10.0pt] Lightning
[10.0pt] Talks
[10.0pt] Optional
[10.0pt] Presentation
[10.0pt] Report
[10.0pt] Opens
[10.0pt] 20/Apr
[10.0pt] 38
[10.0pt] Lightning
[10.0pt] Talks
[10.0pt] 22/Apr
[10.0pt] 39
[10.0pt] Lightning
[10.0pt] Talks
[10.0pt] 24/Apr
[10.0pt] 40
[10.0pt] Lightning
[10.0pt] Talks
[10.0pt] 27/Apr
[10.0pt] 41
[10.0pt] Lightning
[10.0pt] Talks
[10.0pt] 28/Apr
[10.0pt] 42
[10.0pt] Lightning
[10.0pt] Talks
[10.0pt] Optional
[10.0pt] Report
[16.0pt] AI Statement
The use of AI support is allowed if any assignment delivered is followed by the
delivery of all AI interactions (prompts, responses, chatbot session links) to the most
complete extent possible to allow the instructor to evaluate the student rationale to
solve the problem.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.