<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 629 Syllabus
Section 700 (54783)
Analysis of Algorithms
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting time:  asynchronous
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Andreas Klappenecker
Email:  andreas-klappenecker@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 418
Phone:  (979) 458-0608
Office Hours
W 10:00am-noon on zoom
Preferred Contact Method
email
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Analysis of Algorithms. (3-0). Credit 3. Concrete algorithm design and analysis;
abstract models to analyze the complexity of problems; NP-Completeness;
approximation and probabilistic algorithms. Prerequisite: Graduate classification.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Graduate classification.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Explain a variety of fundamental algorithms and algorithmic techniques
Select the most appropriate algorithm to solve a given problem
Analyze the correctness, runtime, and space complexity of an algorithm
Design new algorithms and modify existing ones using techniques discussed
in class
Recognize when a problem is likely intractable (has no efficient algorithm) and
be able to prove this by showing undecidability or NP-hardness
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Introduction to Algorithms, fourth edition
ISBN:  9780262367509
Authors:  Thomas H. Cormen, Charles E. Leiserson,
Ronald L. Rivest, Clifford Stein
Publisher:  MIT Press
Publication Date:  2022-04-05
URL for Resource:
https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?
direct=true&db=nlebk&AN=2932690&site=eds-
live&scope=site&authtype=shib&custid=s8516548&ebv=
EK&ppid=Page-__-1
Notes:
Freely available as an ebook from our library
Also, check daily:  https://canvas.tamu.edu/
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Your grade will be based on the following components:
exams 60%: There will be one midterm exam and one comprehensive final
exam each worth 30%. The exams will be given on canvas, and will be
proctored on zoom.
quizzes and exercises 10%: There will be online quizzes and exercises, each
consisting of a few simple questions. Your lowest grade in this component will
be dropped.
homework 30%: These are essay style assignments, for which you are
required to use the LaTeX typestting system to type in your answers. All
assignments can be found in canvas. Your lowest homework grade will be
dropped.
Final grades will be assigned according to this scale:
A: 90 and above, B: [80,90), C: [70,80), D: [60,70), F: below 60
A slight curve might be applied if the course average is low.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
All assignments must be submitted on canvas.
No late submissions will be accepted .
E-mail submissions will not be accepted and will be ignored without notice.
Work turned-in on time is eligible for partial credit.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Tentative Course Schedule
Week
Tentative Topic
Week 1 (1/12-)
Introduction, Review of Asymptotic
Analysis
Week 2 (1/19-)
Lower Bounds
Week 3 (1/26-)
Divide and Conquer
Week 4 (2/2-)
Divide and Conquer
Week 5 (2/9-)
Greedy Algorithms
Week 6 (2/16-)
Dynamic Programming
Week 7 (2/23-)
Amortized Analysis, Midterm 2/26
Week 8 (3/2-)
Graph Algorithms
Week 9 (3/9-)
Spring break. No classes.
Week 10 (3/16-)
Graph Algorithms
Week 11 (3/23-)
Randomized Algorithms
Week 12 (3/30-)
Randomized Algorithms
Week 13 (4/6-)
NP Completeness
Week 14 (4/13-)
NP Completeness, Approximation
Algorithms
Week 15 (4/20-)
Undecidability
Midterm exam:  Thursday, 2/26,  6:00pm, the exam is proctored on zoom
Final exam:  Thursday, 4/30, 6:00pm-7:00pm (or alternatively 10:00am-11:00am),
the final exam is proctored on zoom
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
Regrading Policy
A student can request regrading of any graded material if the student believes that
the points assigned are inconsistent with the quality and merits of the submitted
work. To request re-grading the student needs to follow the guidelines below:
1. Regrading requests must be submitted to the Instructor within one week
after the graded item has been returned to the student. After this time limit
no regrading requests will be honored.
2. Regrading requests must be in written form, accompanied by a reasonable
amount of specific justification and documentation.
Lectures and More
All course information will be posted in canvas.  You should check your course
announcements, course material and due dates daily.  It is strongly
recommended that you keep up with the course material and do not fall behind.
Start working on assignments as soon as they are assigned.
Getting Started
Read and study the syllabus in its entirety
Login to the Canvas course website (https://canvas.tamu.edu) to ensure that
you have access and the correct plug-ins installed, and to update your user
profile.
spend some time becoming familiar with the course layout, and
check on the announcements section in case you missed any prior
announcements. All email announcements will be sent via Canvas
announcement and so they can all be found on Canvas.
The main course is organized into weekly modules that you can find in the
modules section.
Course Technology
This course will use the TAMU Canvas learning management system as the virtual
classroom. Within Canvas, you will find all course-related content and assessments
(including but not limited to course materials, schedule, links to videos, activities,
assignments, etc.). The supported browsers for Canvas can be found at
https://community.canvaslms.com/t5/Canvas-Basics-Guide/tkb-p/basics  under
“What are the browser and computer requirements for Canvas?” Within Canvas, the
course navigation menu is located on the left. The course content is presented
within Modules; once you are on the Modules page, you access each weekly
module. All due dates are posted within the modules. If you have any questions
about navigating the Canvas course website, please contact the instructor.
Technology Requirements
You need reliable and frequent access to a computer and to the high-speed
Internet. To attend virtual office hours, you will need TAMU Zoom
(https://tamu.zoom.us). It is recommended to have a microphone and webcam
when using Zoom. You need a second device for exam proctoring.
Students will need to type in their solutions for the homework problems using the
LATEX typesetting system. The system is freely available to download from the
internet. For more information on LATEX, visit  https://ctan.org/starter
[16.0pt] AI Statement
The use of AI is strictly prohibited in this course.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
Galveston Students:
Technology Services - Help Desk
[10.5pt] E-mail:  Helpdesk@tamug.edu
[10.5pt] Phone: 409-740-4714
[10.5pt] Location: Bldg 3007 (CLB), Rm 113
[10.5pt] Hours: Monday - Friday 7:30am to 6:00pm
[10.5pt bold] Canvas LMS Technical Support
[10.5pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[10.5pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[10.5pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[10.5pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
[10.5pt] navigation menu.
[10.5pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.