<!-- body_font:12.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 714 Syllabus
[11.0pt] Section 700 (55832)
[11.0pt] Advanced Hardware Design Functional Verification
[11.0pt] Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
[13.5pt] Lecture schedule
Lecture schedule
[12.0pt bold] Section
[12.0pt bold] Day
[12.0pt bold] Time
[12.0pt bold] Location
[12.0pt bold] Lecture
[12.0pt bold] recordings
[12.0pt bold] Lecture
[12.0pt bold] code
600
Tue, Thu   05:30 PM
- 06:55
PM
HRBB 113
Mediasite
Collection
Code
700
Online
NA
NA
Mediasite
Collection
Code
[11.0pt] Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
[11.0pt] David Houngninou
[11.0pt] Email:  davidkebo@tamu.edu
[11.0pt] Office Location:  Peterson 439
[11.0pt] Phone:  979-845-3937
[11.0pt] Office Hours
[13.0pt] https://calendly.com/davidkebo/20min
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
[11.0pt] Advanced Hardware Design Functional Verification. (3-0). Credit 3. Advanced topics
[11.0pt] in hardware functional verification; case studies on verification in integrated circuit
[11.0pt] design; exposure to advanced industry best practices; focus on functional
[11.0pt] verification in an IP-based hardware design methodology. Prerequisites: CSCE 616,
[11.0pt] CSCE 312, CSCE 350, ECEN 350, ECEN 468, or equivalent; familiarity with
[11.0pt] C/C++/Verilog/VHDL programming.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
[11.0pt] Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  CSCE 616, CSCE 312, CSCE 350/ECEN 350,
[11.0pt] ECEN 350/CSCE 350, ECEN 468, or equivalent; familiarity with C/C++/Verilog/VHDL
[11.0pt] programming.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
[16.5pt] Learning Outcomes
Identify advanced aspects of the hardware design verification process.
Apply IP-based verification and integration in subsystems.
Illustrate how UVM-based solutions are provided for Verification
environments.
Explain how UVM facilitates and enhances Verification component reuse.
Explain Verification’s role in an IP-based hierarchical Hardware Design
flow.
Apply current industry-standard tools to perform hierarchical Design
Functional Verification.
Explore and implement machine learning techniques to enhance
verification efficiency and coverage.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
[11.0pt] None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
[11.0pt] This material Is: Required
[11.0pt] SystemVerilog for Verification
[11.0pt] ISBN:  978-1461407140
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[16.5pt] Grading
Grading distribution
[12.0pt bold] Distribution
Exam 1
15%
Exam 2
15%
Cadence Online Training 1
10%
Cadence Online Training 2
5%
Activities
15%
Labs
40%
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
[11.0pt] Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
[11.0pt] considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[16.5pt] Class Schedule
WEEK   DATE
EVENTS
HOLIDAYS
LABS
ASSIGNMENTS
CLASS TOPIC AND
SLIDES
Week
1
13-
JAN
15-
JAN
First day of
class
Lab 0
Lab 0 lecture
Overview of IP-Based
SoC
UVM and
SystemVerilog for
Verification
UVM Testbench
example
Week
2
20-
JAN
22-
JAN
Lab 1: Standalone
Assertion-Based
Verification of APB
VIPs
Lab 1 lecture
AMBA Protocol
APB (Advanced
Peripheral Bus)
Week
3
27-
JAN
29-
JAN
Lab 2: Verification of
APB Master IP
connected to an APB
Slave with Memory
Lab 2 lecture
Introduction to
Verification IP (VIP)
VIP-Based IP-Level
Assertion-Based
Verification
Verification in an IP-
Based Design
Methodology (from
Design Spec to Tape-
Out)
WEEK   DATE
EVENTS
HOLIDAYS
LABS
ASSIGNMENTS
CLASS TOPIC AND
SLIDES
Week
4
03-
FEB
05-
FEB
Lab 3: IP-Level
Assertion-Based
Verification of L2 &
Mem IP with APB
VIPs
Lab 3 lecture
Verification in an IP-
Based Design
Methodology (from
Design Spec to Tape-
Out)
Verification Plan
(VPLAN in depth)
Week
5
10-
FEB
12-
FEB
Lab 4: Verification of
APB Master
connected to a
LV1/LV2 Cache
Memory Slave
Lab 4 lecture
Verification Plan:
Example 1:
Verification Plan of an
OpenTitan SRAM
Controller
Verification Plan:
Example 2:
Verification Plan of an
APB3 Protocol
Week
6
17-
FEB
19-
FEB
Team Lab 5:
Verification of MESI
protocol-based Multi-
Core Cache
Lab 5 lecture
Stimulus Generation
and Sequencers
(SEQ)
[12.0pt bold] Multicore MESI
[12.0pt bold] Based Cache
[12.0pt bold] Design HAS
WEEK   DATE
EVENTS
HOLIDAYS
LABS
ASSIGNMENTS
CLASS TOPIC AND
SLIDES
Week
7
24-
FEB
26-
FEB
Team Lab 6:
Verification of MESI
protocol-based Multi-
Core Cache
Lab 6 lecture
[12.0pt bold] Midterm exam
[12.0pt bold] review
Week
8
03-
MAR
05-
MAR
No lab
Virtual Sequences
and Virtual
Sequencers
[12.0pt bold] Midterm exam
[12.0pt bold] Thursday, March 05,
[12.0pt bold] 09:00 AM to 11:59
[12.0pt bold] PM
Week
9
10-
MAR
12-
MAR
09-MAR to
13-MAR
Spring
Break
No lecture
Week
10
17-
MAR
19-
MAR
Coverage (in-depth)
Cadence vManager
Setup
VPLAN Coverage
from CSCE-714
Design Specification
WEEK   DATE
EVENTS
HOLIDAYS
LABS
ASSIGNMENTS
CLASS TOPIC AND
SLIDES
Week
11
24-
MAR
26-
MAR
Team Lab 7: Add
Project UVM
Stimulus Generation
(agents, drivers,
seqs/sequences,
vseqs/vsequencers)
Lab 7 lecture
BFMs, Memory
Models (MM)
Coverage-Driven
Volume Random
Verification
Week
12
31-
MAR
02-
APR
Team Project:
Verification Plan
Verification Plan
Lecture
AHB (Advanced
High-performance
Bus)
Pervasive Functional
Verification (Reset,
Power, Self-Test, etc)
Week
13
07-
APR
09-
APR
Team Project
Project lecture
Post-Silicon
Validation (Power-On,
Wafer, Sort, Package,
System,
Manufacturing, etc)
Week
14
14-
APR
16-
APR
Team Project
AI for Verification:
ML-based Stimulus
Generation
WEEK   DATE
EVENTS
HOLIDAYS
LABS
ASSIGNMENTS
CLASS TOPIC AND
SLIDES
Week
15
21-
APR
23-
APR
Introduction to
Hardware/Software
Co-Verification
Co-verification
methodologies and
tools
Week
16
28-
APR
30-
APR
28-APR
Last Day of
Classes
[12.0pt bold] Final exam review
Week
17
05-
MAY
07-
MAY
[12.0pt bold] Cadence
[12.0pt bold] SystemVerilog for
[12.0pt bold] Design and
[12.0pt bold] Verification
[12.0pt bold] Trainings
[12.0pt bold] Training 1
[12.0pt bold] Certificate Form
[12.0pt bold] Training 2
[12.0pt bold] Certificate Form
[12.0pt bold] Final exam
[12.0pt bold] Tuesday, May 05th,
[12.0pt bold] 09:00 AM to 11:59
[12.0pt bold] PM
[16.0pt] Technology Support
[11.0pt] Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
[11.0pt] Hours: 24/7
[11.0pt] Phone: (979) 845-8300
[11.0pt] Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
[11.0pt] Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
[11.0pt] Canvas LMS Technical Support
[11.0pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[11.0pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[11.0pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[11.0pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
[11.0pt] navigation menu.
[11.0pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[11.0pt] Galveston Students:
[11.0pt] Technology Services - Help Desk
[10.5pt] E-mail:  Helpdesk@tamug.edu
[10.5pt] Phone: 409-740-4714
[10.5pt] Location: Bldg 3007 (CLB), Rm 113
[10.5pt] Hours: Monday - Friday 7:30am to 6:00pm
[10.5pt bold] Canvas LMS Technical Support
[10.5pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[10.5pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[10.5pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[10.5pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
[10.5pt] navigation menu.
[10.5pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] University Policies
[11.0pt] This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
[11.0pt] course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
[11.0pt] these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
[11.0pt] “An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
[11.0pt] “Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
[11.0pt] submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
[11.0pt] the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
[11.0pt] appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
[11.0pt] instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
[11.0pt] case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
[11.0pt] You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
[11.0pt] academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
[11.0pt] The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
[11.0pt] responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
[11.0pt] assignments.
[11.0pt] Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
[11.0pt] absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
[11.0pt] Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
[11.0pt] when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
[11.0pt] Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
[11.0pt] Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
[11.0pt] including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[11.0pt] Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
[11.0pt] a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
[11.0pt] work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
[11.0pt] 7.4.1 ).
[11.0pt] “The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
[11.0pt] make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
[11.0pt] 7.4.2 ).
[11.0pt] Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
[11.0pt] Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
[11.0pt] learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
[11.0pt] community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
[11.0pt] applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
[11.0pt] sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
[11.0pt] disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
[11.0pt] complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
[11.0pt] and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
[11.0pt] Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
[11.0pt] Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
[11.0pt] accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
[11.0pt] discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
[11.0pt] admissions and employment.
[11.0pt] The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
[11.0pt] regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
[11.0pt] Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
[11.0pt] email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
[11.0pt] Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
[11.0pt] address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
[11.0pt] 3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
[11.0pt] and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
[11.0pt] discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
[11.0pt] pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
[11.0pt] information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
[11.0pt] includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
[11.0pt] sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
[11.0pt] Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
[11.0pt] learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
[11.0pt] Rights & Title IX webpage .
[11.0pt] Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
[11.0pt] health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
[11.0pt] experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
[11.0pt] discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
[11.0pt] who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
[11.0pt] report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
[11.0pt] opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
[11.0pt] disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
[11.0pt] office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
[11.0pt] limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
[11.0pt] conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
[11.0pt] with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
[11.0pt] To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
[11.0pt] your location:
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
[11.0pt] Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
[11.0pt] Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
[11.0pt] School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
[11.0pt] Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
[11.0pt] McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
[11.0pt] Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
[11.0pt] Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
[11.0pt] accommodations.
[11.0pt] Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
[11.0pt] Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
[11.0pt] 3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
[11.0pt] in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
[11.0pt] A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
[11.0pt] If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
[11.0pt] office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
[11.0pt] Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
[11.0pt] Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
[11.0pt] and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
[11.0pt] should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
[11.0pt] aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
[11.0pt] accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
[11.0pt] changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
[11.0pt] environment.
[11.0pt] Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
[11.0pt] lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
[11.0pt] equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
[11.0pt] pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
[11.0pt] Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
[11.0pt] influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
[11.0pt] encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
[11.0pt] services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
[11.0pt] Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
[11.0pt] anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
[11.0pt] hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
[11.0pt] Texas A&M College Station
[11.0pt] Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
[11.0pt] 979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
[11.0pt] experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
[11.0pt] emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
[11.0pt] 988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
[11.0pt] FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
[11.0pt] limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
[11.0pt] review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
[11.0pt] inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
[11.0pt] Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
[11.0pt] items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
[11.0pt] Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
[11.0pt] policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
[11.0pt] Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
[11.0pt] security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
[11.0pt] be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
[11.0pt] of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
[11.0pt] Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
[11.0pt] address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
[11.0pt] attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
[11.0pt] institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
[11.0pt] officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
[11.0pt] residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
[11.0pt] Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
[11.0pt] is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
[11.0pt] has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
[11.0pt] accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
[11.0pt] civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
[11.0pt] and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
[11.0pt] learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
[11.0pt] website  about the First Amendment.