<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 221 Syllabus
Section 509 (17004)
Data Structures and Algorithms
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:
Meeting Type: Lecture (509,510,511)
Meeting Days: MWF
Start Time: 10:20AM
End Time: 11:10AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location: ZACH 310
CSCE 221-509
Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 08:25AM
End Time: 09:15AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location: ZACH 584
CSCE 221-510
Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 09:35AM
End Time: 10:25AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location: ZACH 584
CSCE 221-511
Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 11:35AM
End Time: 12:25PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location: ZACH 584
Credit Hours:  4
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Alan Kuhnle
Email:  kuhnle@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 421 (and Zoom: https://tamu.zoom.us/my/kuhnle)
Phone:  N/A
Office Hours
Monday, 8:30-9:20am. Thursday, 9:30-10:20am.
Preferred Contact Method
email: kuhnle@tamu.edu
Webpage:  https://www.alankuhnle.com
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Data Structures and Algorithms. (3-2). Credit 4. Specification and implementation of
basic abstract data types and their associated algorithms including stacks, queues,
lists, sorting and selection, searching, graphs, and hashing; performance tradeoffs
of different implementations and asymptotic analysis of running time and memory
usage; includes the execution of student programs written in C++. Prerequisite:
Grade C or better in CSCE 120 or CSCE 121; grade of C or better in CSCE 222 or
ECEN 222, or concurrent enrollment.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade C or better in CSCE 120 or CSCE 121; grade of
C or better in CSCE 222/ECEN 222 or ECEN 222/CSCE 222, or concurrent
enrollment.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Design and implement diverse data structures that allow easy access and
manipulation of data using C++ programming language.
Apply the Big-O asymptotic notation to analyze and select an efficient
algorithm for solving a given problem with respect to runtime and memory
usage.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Data Structures and Algorithm Analysis in C++
ISBN:  9780132847377
Authors:  Mark Allen Weiss
Publisher:  Addison-Wesley
Publication Date:  2014-01-01
Edition:  4th
This material Is: Optional
LearnCpp.com
URL for Resource:  https://learncpp.com
Grading Criteria
Grading Criteria
Homework Assignments
9%
Programming Assignments
24%
Lab Activities
10%
Quizzes
12%
Exam 1
15%
Exam 2
15%
Exam 3
15%
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Grading Scale
Grading Scale
90-100
A
80–89.9
B
70–79.9
C
60–69.9
D
0–59.9
F
Your final grade will be determined based on written homework,
programming assignments, lab activities, quizzes, and exams.
The assignment handout will provide points distribution. Each programming
assignment will be graded focused on: algorithm design, usage of data
structures and/or new user-defined types and their implementation, its
correctness, tests, a report describing implemented algorithms and data
structures, and results of computational experiments.
All grade appeals must be made no later than one week after the grade
is posted.
Graded Attendance
The students lab attendance is required and will be taken on regular basis.
The lecture attendance will be taken by pop quizzes. The students are
responsible to learn all material covered in class, read the assigned text from
the textbook and do homework assignments.
2 bonus points will be added to your final score if you have a perfect lab
attendance, or 1 point if you have only one lab absence.
Make-up exams and quizzes will only be given with documented University-
approved excuses, see  University Regulations . The student  Rule 7  explains
policies and excused absences. Please discuss unusual circumstances in
advance with the instructor.
Notes about graded materials
All homework assignments will be announced in class and posted on
Canvas.  See the link to the course calendar on Canvas for deadlines.
The written part of homework assignments or programming reports, and the
Cover Page should be typed  preferably using LaTeX or LaTeX-based
apps,  for instance overleaf (an online LaTeX text editor). The homework  in
PDF format  should be submitted to   Gradescope .
All programming assignments  should be implemented in C++ , compiled
and run on a computer (preferably using Linux), and transferred to
Gradescope  for grading.
Culture assignments allow you to explore the latest developments in
Computer Science and Engineering or learn about the famous computer
scientists like Turing Award winners. The assignments should be submitted to
Canvas.
Quizzes are over material covered during the lectures and assigned reading
from the textbook.
The Instructor and/or TAs can request oral exam  to check student’s
knowledge over material covered by test, homework, or assignment.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
The programming assignments and written homeworks will be accepted  up to 1
day late with a 5% penalty. Once solutions have been discussed or handed out the
assignments will not be accepted. Please discuss unusual circumstances in advance
with the instructor. Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused
absence is not considered late work and is exempted from the late work policy. (See
Rule 7 )
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Course Tentative Schedule — Spring 2026
Module 1 — Jan 12–16 — Week 1
• Introduction to Data Structures
• Pointers, Arrays, Vectors
• Introduction to Analysis of Algorithms
Module 2 — Jan 19–23 — Week 2
MLK Day: Jan 19 (no classes)
• Complexity of Search and Sort Algorithms
• Algorithms – Best, Worst, Average Cases
Module 3 — Jan 26–30 — Week 3
• The Lower Bound Theorem
• Linear Sort Algorithms
• Stack ADT – Array Based Implementation
Module 4 — Feb 02–06 — Week 4
• Queue ADT – Array-based Implementation
• Amortized Analysis
• Stack and Queue Applications; Parser
Module 5 — Feb 09–13 — Week 5
• Linked Lists (Stack and Queue based)
• Dequeues
• Recursive Algorithms
•  Exam 1: Feb 09
Module 6 — Feb 16–20 — Week 6
• Analysis of Divide-and-Conquer Algorithms
• Iterating and Master Methods
Module 7 — Feb 23–27 — Week 7
• Binary Search Trees
• AVL Trees
• Red-Black Trees
Module 8 — Mar 02–06 — Week 8
• 2–4 Trees
• Skip Lists
Module 9 — Mar 16–20 — Week 10
Spring Break: Mar 09–13 (no classes)
• Hashing
• Priority Queues
• Heap
• Exam 2: Mar 18
Module 10 — Mar 23–27 — Week 11
• Huffman Trees
• Graphs
• BFS and DFS
Module 11 — Mar 30–Apr 03 — Week 12
• Digraph Algorithms
• Reading Day: Apr 03 (no classes)
Module 12 — Apr 06–10 — Week 13
• Shortest Path Algorithms
• Dijkstra Algorithms
Module 13 — Apr 13–17 — Week 14
• Minimum Spanning Trees
• Prim's Algorithm
• Q-Drop Deadline: Apr 14
Module 14 — Apr 20–24 — Week 15
• Disjoint Set ADT
Module 15 — Apr 27–29 — Week 16
• Kruskal Algorithm
• Last Day of Classes: Apr 28 (Friday)
• Final Review
• Reading Day: Apr 29 (no classes)
Final Exam:  Monday, May 4, 8:00am - 10:00am.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
Learning Resources
[12.0pt] You may have noticed from the syllabus that this course focuses on
[12.0pt] obtaining a computer science background and developing C++
[12.0pt] programming skills. Programming is not something you can learn
[12.0pt] overnight by reading a textbook or lecture notes; it requires a lot of
[12.0pt] practice. The TAs assigned and I are willing to help you to learn and
[12.0pt] understand the course material, and help you to master your
[12.0pt] programming skills so please  see us during our office hours . A few
[12.0pt] hints about how to succeed in this course:
[12.0pt] attend class and lab meetings regularly
[12.0pt] read lecture notes and related material in the textbook, and feel
[12.0pt] free to ask questions
[12.0pt] study for quizzes and tests
[12.0pt] retype (do not copy & paste) and implement in C++
[12.0pt] examples  from the lecture notes and textbook
[12.0pt] complete all labs and projects
[12.0pt] if you have any course related questions please visit us during
[12.0pt] our office hours
[12.0pt] use the online Campuswire to ask questions and participate in
[12.0pt] discussions
[12.0pt] In general, Computer Science is not an easy subject but it will pay off
[12.0pt] after graduation.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
This course assumes that all work submitted by students will be generated by the
students themselves, although discussion with TAs, PTs and Instructor is allowed.
Students should not have another person/entity do the writing of any portion of an
assignment for them, which includes hiring a person or a company to write
assignments and/or using artificial intelligence tools like ChatGPT.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
Galveston Students:
Technology Services - Help Desk
[10.5pt] E-mail:  Helpdesk@tamug.edu
[10.5pt] Phone: 409-740-4714
[10.5pt] Location: Bldg 3007 (CLB), Rm 113
[10.5pt] Hours: Monday - Friday 7:30am to 6:00pm
[10.5pt bold] Canvas LMS Technical Support
[10.5pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[10.5pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[10.5pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[10.5pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
[10.5pt] navigation menu.
[10.5pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] Learning Resources
Campuswire
It is the consolidated and fully customizable home base for the course
communication.
It is a modern Q&A forum and chatrooms for group discussion
Peer Teachers (PTs) help students to understand the material taught in
classes and labs, practice computational thinking and improve programming
skills.
Peer Teacher Central Location: PETR 127
Website
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.