<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 442 Syllabus
Section 500 (46558)
Scientific Programming
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 09:35AM
End Time: 10:50AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  HRBB 113
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Timothy Davis
Email:  davis@tamu.edu
Office Location:  235 Peterson
Phone:  979 845 4094
Office Hours
10am-11am, Tuesdays and Thursdays
Preferred Contact Method
email, text, or cell phone (cell: 352 359 2812)
Biography
Tim Davis is a Professor of Computer Science at Texas A&M University. His primary
scholarly contribution is the creation of widely-used sparse matrix algorithms and
software (SuiteSparse), including most of the sparse solvers behind x=A\b in
MATLAB, and many other commercial packages. For example, his codes power the
semiconductor processing of all high-end semiconductor fabs.  Every Apple device
uses his solvers, and they are also an integral part of Pokemen Go (for augmented
reality).  Fellow IEEE, SIAM, ACM.
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Scientific Programming. (3-0). Credit 3. Introduction to numerical algorithms
fundamental to scientific and engineering applications of computers; elementary
discussion of error; algorithms, efficiency; polynomial approximations, quadrature
and systems of algebraic and differential equations. Prerequisites: CSCE 221 with a
grade of C or better; MATH 304 or MATH 308 or concurrent enrollment.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  CSCE 221 with a grade of C or better; MATH 304 or
MATH 308 or concurrent enrollment.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
1. Apply computational arithmetic in real-world scenarios. Understand floating-
point numbers, rounding errors, relative and absolute errors, cancellation,
and numerical instability.
2. Solve linear and nonlinear equation systems, using Gaussian elimination, LU,
QR decompositions. Understand pivoting, norms, condition numbers, and
apply iterative methods, the bisection method, Newton’s method, the secant
method.
3. Create and apply optimization techniques, based on the Golden section
search, the steepest descent method, and the Newton method, to solving
practical problems.
4. Perform data interpolation for approximation through the application of
Lagrange interpolation, Newton interpolation, Hermite interpolation, and
piecewise polynomial interpolation.
5. Apply numerical integration and differentiation, Richardson extrapolation, the
composite rule, Newton-Cotes quadrature, and Gaussian quadrature.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Scientific Computing: An Introductory Survey, Revised Second Edition
ISBN:  978-1-61197-557-4
Authors:  M. T. Heath
Publisher:  SIAM
Publication Date:  2018
Edition:  Revised 2nd Edition
URL for Resource:  https://doi.org/10.1137/1.9781611975581
Notes:
20% DISCOUNT AVAILABLE:  Go to:  https://doi.org/10.1137/1.9781611975581
Select NonMember Price(not Member Price).
At checkout enter coupon code: BKRSAD.
30% DISCOUNT for SIAM members:   If you are a SIAM student member, you can
get the Member Price discount instead (which is 30%).  Becoming a student
member of SIAM is free.
You can't use both discounts.
This material Is: Required
MATLAB
URL for Resource:  https://www.mathworks.com/academia/tah-portal/texas-am-
university-college-station-30976309.html
Notes:
You are required to have access to MATLAB. Texas A&M has a University-wide site
license, so as an A&M student, you can download it for free.
This material Is: Optional
Numerical Computing with MATLAB
URL for Resource:  https://www.mathworks.com/moler/index_ncm.html
Notes:
This book is optional (and free for download).  We will use some of the M-files from
this book, which I will provide for any given homework assignment.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Exams 60%: we will have one in-class exams during the semester, and a final exam.
Each is worth 30% each.
Homework: 40%. Homework is always due at EXACTLY 9:35 AM on a class day, so
that I can discuss the solution in class that day. So normally I cannot accept late
submissions, except with prior permission. Homework is assigned, submitted, and
graded on Canvas. Unless otherwise noted on the assignment, all homework is to
be done by yourself. You may discuss the homework with each other but you must
solve the problems yourself. When discussing with each other, pretend you are in
my office discussing it with me. I will help you understand the problem but I
wouldn't give you the solution. If you do discuss the homework with anyone, state
their name on your submission (either on the HW itself or on a note on Canvas).
You may not use AI in any way.
Grading scale (after curving of individual items, as needed):
90 or higher: A
80: B
70: C
60: D
less than 60: F
The University views class attendance as the responsibility of an individual student.
Attendance is essential to complete the course successfully. University rules related
to excused and unexcused absences are located on-line at  http://student-
rules.tamu.edu/rule07 ; In general, I do not give excused absences for interviews or
travel, but exceptions are granted on a case-by-case basis. You must ask me
beforehand, however. If you miss class because of medical reasons or for an
interview (for work or for graduate / professional school) that cannot be
rescheduled, I reserve the right to require written confirmation. For interviews or
other scheduled events, a priori confirmation is required.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
No late assignments accepted without a priori permission.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Tues, Jan 13
Thurs, Jan 15
Tues, Jan 20, hw1 due
Thurs, Jan 22
Tues, Jan 27, hw2 due
Thurs, Jan 29
Tues, Feb 3, hw3 due
Thurs, Feb 5
Tues, Feb 10, hw4 due
Thurs, Feb 12
Tues, Feb 17, hw5 due
Thurs, Feb 19
Tues, Feb 24, hw5 due
Thurs, Feb 26
Tues, Mar 3, hw6 due
Thurs, Mar 5, midterm, in class
Tues, Mar 10 (no class, Spring break)
Thurs, Mar 12 (no class, Spring break)
Tues, Mar 17
Thurs, Mar 19, hw7 due
Tues, Mar 24
Thurs, Mar 26, hw8 due
Tues, Mar 31
Thurs, Apr 2, hw9 due
Tues, Apr 7
Thurs, Apr 9, hw10 due
Tues, Apr 14
Thurs, Apr 16, hw11 due
Tues, Apr 21
Thurs, Apr 23, hw12 due
Tues, Apr 28
Thurs, Apr 30, Final Exam, 12:30pm to 2:30pm, in our regular classroom
(HRB 113)
Topics:
We will cover Chapters 1 to 8 of the textbook, but not all sections of those chapters.
Details are listed below, but these are subject to change:
1. Scientific computing:  sections 1 to 3, except skip 1.3.7 and 1.3.11 and
following
2. Linear systems: sections 1 to 5, except skip 2.4.8, 2.4.9, 2.5.2, and 2.5.3.  Also
skip the LDLT factorization (page 85)
3. Least squares: sections 1 and 2 (all).  Section 3: just the condition number.
Section 4: all.  Section 5: only 3.5.1.  Section 3.6: up to and including the
pseudo-inverse (page 139).  Section 7: all.
4. Eigenvalues:  Section 1: all except for the spectrum.  Section 2: just 4.2.1,
4.2.2, and 4.2.4 (but ignore the complex case).  Section 5: just 4.5.1 and 4.5.2.
5. Non-linear equations: Section 1: all.  Section 2: just the intermediate value
theorem for scalar functions.  Section 4: all.  Section 5: just subsections 1 to 4.
Section 5.6: just 5.6.2 (but skip quasi Newton methods)
6. Optimization:  Section 1: all.  Section 4: all (except skip 6.4.4).  Section 6.2.2.
Section 5: just 6.5.2 and 6.5.3.  We will skip Section 6, but as a side note,
Google solves this problem with their Ceres package, which relies on my
sparse solvers, to place every photo in StreetView.
7. Interpolation:  Section 1: all.  Section 3: just 7.3.1 and 7.3.2.  Section 4: just
7.4.1 and 7.4.2.
8. Integration: Section 1: all except skip Reimann sum and Riemann integrable
terms.  Section 3: only subsections 1, 5, and 6.
9. ODEs: we will cover this topic if time permits
[16.0pt] AI Statement
No use of AI is permitted in any manner.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
Attendance is expected but not logged.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the  First Amendment.