<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 477 Syllabus
Section 550 (59022)
Cybersecurity Risk
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 1:50PM
End Time: 2:40PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  CLB 112
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: T
Start Time: 11:10AM
End Time: 12:00PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  CLB 210
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Marian Zaki
Email:  mzaki@tamu.edu
Office Location:  Engineering Classroom and Research Building (ECRB) – Room
309F
Phone:  409-740-5511
Office Hours
M 11:30 AM – 1:00 PM
T 9:30 PM – 10:30 AM
F 9:00 AM – 12:30 PM By appointment
Preferred Contact Method
[13.0pt] mzaki @ tamu . edu
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Cybersecurity Risk. (3-0). Credit 3. Risks in cybersecurity; avoidance, acceptance,
mitigation, or transference strategies; developing reliable cybersecurity risk
assessments to include analysis, categorization, and evaluation; cybersecurity risk
audit frameworks. Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in CYBR 201, CSCE 201, or
CSCE 221; junior or senior classification. Cross-listed with CYBR 403.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CYBR 201/CSCE 201,
CSCE 201/CYBR 201, or CSCE 221; junior or senior classification. Cross Listing:
CYBR 403/CSCE 477.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
Demonstrate  an understanding of the core concepts and practices that
underpin cybersecurity risk assessment.
Describe  advanced and emerging cybersecurity risk issues, including supply
chain security, privacy risks, and critical infrastructure protection.
Integrate  course concepts to assess, classify, and prioritize risks by
completing hands on risk assessments using realistic case studies.
Communicate  the role of cybersecurity risk within enterprise risk
management and deliver actionable insights with strategic recommendations.
Apply  real-world risk management approaches in real-life scenarios,
demonstrating practical reasoning and cybersecurity risk knowledge.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Digital Bundle Access for Managing Risk in Information Systems
Publisher:  JB Learning
Edition:  Third Edition
URL for Resource:  www.jblearning.com
Notes:
The digital bundle comes with an ebook and labs. When purchased through the JBL
website, you will get a 15% discount. You can also purchase from A&M's bookstore.
Follow the instructions here to complete your purchase:
https://info2.jblearning.com/gibson3e-fdoc
[14.0pt bold] Access Code for the Course is:  88EB32
This material Is: Optional
The security Risk Assessment Handbook
Authors:  Douglas J. Landoll
Publisher:  CRC Press
Publication Date:  2021
Edition:  Third Edition
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Weighted assessments
[11.0pt bold] Method of Evaluation
[11.0pt bold] weight
Midterm Exam
10%
Final Exam
15%
Assignments (Roughly 9 in total)
40%
[11.0pt bold] Method of Evaluation
[11.0pt bold] weight
Course Project
30%
Attendance and Active Classroom Participation
10%
[11.0pt bold] Total Possible Score
[11.0pt bold] 100%
The following grading scale is based on the total average weighted grades earned
over the course of the semester.
[10.5pt] Letter Grades
[10.5pt bold] Grade
[10.5pt bold] Range
[10.0pt] A
[10.0pt] 90 ≤ Score
[10.0pt] B
[10.0pt] 80 ≤ Score < 90
[10.0pt] C
[10.0pt] 70 ≤ Score < 80
[10.0pt] D
[10.0pt] 60 ≤ Score < 70
[10.0pt] F
[10.0pt] Score < 60
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Each student gets  one free pass  for a late submission (up to 3 days) with no
penalty. The free pass must be claimed before the deadline (student must
email the professor). One day late submission will have 10% points deducted,
two days late submission will have 20% points deducted. No later
submissions will be graded. The free pass can be reclaimed for extra credit at
the end of the semester if never utilized (great deal!)
Students with 504 accommodations will get the necessary accommodations
per their accommodation letter
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
The course consists of 3 main modules:
Module I:  Risk Assessment Foundations
Module II:  Risk Management
Module III:  Controls and Risk Treatment
A tentative list of topics for each part is included below. Typically assignments are
due within a week (by midnight) of being assigned, yet dates and due dates are
tentative based on the progress of the course, any changes to be made to the
weekly schedule will be clearly communicated ahead of time in class and through
Canvas (hence, make sure you check Canvas frequently for all due concrete due
dates).
Weekly Schedule
[11.0pt bold] Dates
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Topics
01/12 – 01/14
01
Course Introduction and Expectations
[11.0pt bold] Module I: Risk Assessment Foundations
What is risk? Introduction to Risk Management
Risk Identification Techniques
Risk Management Process
Introduction to NIST CSF v2.0
[11.0pt bold] Reading:  Chapter 1
[11.0pt bold] Assignment:  Research a non-cybersecurity risk domain
01/19
02
No Lecture – Martin Luther King, Jr. Day
01/20 – 01/21
02
Review the structure and purpose of NIST SP 800-
30 for Risk Assessment Methodologies
Core Question:  What is the risk, and how do we
measure it?
**Guest Speaker in class
01/26 – 01/28
03
Managing Threats, Vulnerabilities and Exploits
[11.0pt bold] Dates
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Topics
[11.0pt bold] Reading:  Chapter 2
[11.0pt bold] Assignment:  Lab – Identifying and Exploiting Vulnerabilities
02/02 – 02/04
04
Understanding Risk Assessments
Quantitative vs. Qualitative Risk Assessments
Best Practices for Risk Assessments
[11.0pt bold] Reading:  Chapter 5
02/09 – 02/11
05
Selecting a Risk Assessment Methodology
Identifying and Evaluating Threats and
Vulnerabilities
Identifying candidate controls (preliminary)
[11.0pt bold] Reading:  Chapter 6
[11.0pt bold] Assignment:  Lab – Performing a Risk Assessment
02/16 – 02/18
06
Identifying Assets
Assets Inventory
[11.0pt bold] Reading:  Chapter 7
[11.0pt bold] Assignment:  Lab – Creating an IT Asset Inventory
02/23 – 02/25
07
Threat Assessments
Vulnerability Assessments
Exploit Assessments
[11.0pt bold] Reading:  Chapter 8
[11.0pt bold] Assignment:  Lab – Managing Technical Vulnerabilities
03/02 – 03/04
08
[11.0pt bold] Midterm
[11.0pt bold] Module II: Risk Management
Review the structure and purpose of NIST SP 800-
37 for Risk Management Framework
Core Question:  How does an organization manage risk
over time?
03/09 – 03/13
--
Spring Break – No Classes
[11.0pt bold] Dates
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Topics
03/16 – 03/18
09
[11.0pt bold] Couse Project Released
Objectives and Scope of a Risk Management Plan
Risk ownership and accountability
[11.0pt bold] Reading:  Chapter 4
[11.0pt bold] Assignment:  Lab – Preparing a Risk Management Plan
03/23 – 03/25
10
[11.0pt bold] Module III: Controls and Risk Treatment
Review the structure and purpose of NIST SP 800-
53 for Security and Privacy Controls
Core Question:  What controls do we implement to treat
risk?
** Industry Guest speaker in class
03/30 – 04/01
11
Identifying risk mitigation controls
Risk mitigation throughout organizations
FEDRAMP authorization templates (SSP, RA,
POA&M)
[11.0pt bold] Reading:  Chapters 9 and 10
Assignment: Lab – Developing a Risk Mitigation Plan
04/06 – 04/08
12
Overview of Supply Chain Risk and Third Party
Vendors
Inherited vs shared responsibility controls
Cloud Providers Risk
** Industry Guest speaker in class
04/13 – 04/15
13
Translating a risk assessment into a risk mitigation
plan
Integrating cybersecurity risk into Enterprise Risk
Management by overviewing the latest
versions/revisions of NIST IR 8286
Course Project working session
[11.0pt bold] Reading:  Chapter 11
[11.0pt bold] Assignment:  Lab – Implementing a Risk Mitigation Plan
[11.0pt bold] Dates
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Topics
04/20 – 04/22
14
*Business Impact Analysis
Course Project working session
[11.0pt bold] Reading:  Chapter 12
[11.0pt bold] Assignment:  Lab – Performing a Business Impact Analysis
04/27 – 04/28
15
Last week of classes, reserved for review and
catch up
Course Project Final Presentations
04/29
16
No Lecture – Reading Day
04/30
16
Final Exam (Final Project Presentations) –
Time/duration to be confirmed
[12.0pt] * Topics tentative to course progress
[12.0pt] ** Most our guest speakers are industry professionals, the dates for their visits
[12.0pt] might change throughout the semester since we’ll have to be flexible with their
[12.0pt] work schedules that could potentially change anytime, hence some of our in-class
[12.0pt] discussion topics might shift around. All changes will be communicated clearly in
[12.0pt] class.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
Course Assessments and activities:
[11.0pt bold] Course Project
The course project will be completed in teams. Students in each team will
be assigned to a use case/company to perform a comprehensive cyber risk
assessment for. The project deliverables will include formal
documentations and in-class presentations. The exact deliverables and
rubric for the project will be posted on Canvas when the project is released.
Peer reviews will be part of the project assessment process, 30% of the final
project grade will be allocated to individual contribution.
[11.0pt bold] Assignments
Most assignments are hands-on lab assignments that align with the course
topics. The labs will be accessible through the JBL platform. Students are
required to log into the platform and complete the labs assigned. In Canvas,
you will have reminders of which labs to complete and their deadlines.
[11.0pt bold] Attendance and Active Classroom Participation
Coming prepared for class is defined as having studied the material
covered in the previous class, arriving to class on time.
10% of the course grade will be assigned to attendance, active classroom
participation and general classroom behavior and etiquette. Here are the
things that can result in points deducted
Missing more than 2 classes without prior notification and acceptable
absence (See attendance policy section)
Constant cell phone use
Arriving more than 5 minutes late for class
Having earbuds/headphones on (even if not being used)
Browsing Internet, playing games or working on other course work
during class time
Random walks in and out of class
[11.0pt bold] Exams
Both the midterm and final exam will assess the students’ understanding of
the concepts discussed throughout the course as well as the reading
materials.
Exams will have two parts, an in-class multiple choice portion and a take
home potion.
While the in-class activities, discussions and workshops will cover a wide
range of the course topics, it is not possible to cover everything in class,
hence students are expected to complete their textbook readings to get a
deeper understanding of the topics and to prepare for the exams.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Unless indicated in the assignment or project and authorized by the professor, the
use of generative AI to complete the work will be considered a violation of academic
integrity. If in doubt about what it means or counts as a utilization of generative AI,
ask the professor prior to attempting the task to avoid any unexpected penalties, in
other words: Ask for permission instead of forgiveness.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
Galveston Students:
Technology Services - Help Desk
[10.5pt] E-mail:  Helpdesk@tamug.edu
[10.5pt] Phone: 409-740-4714
[10.5pt] Location: Bldg 3007 (CLB), Rm 113
[10.5pt] Hours: Monday - Friday 7:30am to 6:00pm
[10.5pt bold] Canvas LMS Technical Support
[10.5pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[10.5pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[10.5pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[10.5pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
[10.5pt] navigation menu.
[10.5pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] Learning Resources
Besides the textbook, we will be using throughout the course a variety of essential
references such as NIST frameworks, FEDRAMP documents, and others. All external
resources and references required in our course will be made available in Canvas
on weekly basis, so make sure you check Canvas every week.
Texas A&M at Galveston
[9.8pt] On-campus learning resources to support students in achieving excellence are available through The
[9.8pt] Center for Academic Learning Support ( tamug.edu/cals ).
[16.0pt] College and Department Policies
[9.8pt bold] Additional University Policies for Galveston Campus
[9.8pt bold] Academic Integrity Statements and Policy
[9.8pt] You can learn more about the Honor Council Rules and Procedures as well as your rights and
[9.8pt] responsibilities at  tamug.edu/HonorSystem.
[9.8pt bold] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
[9.8pt] Students who need someone to talk to can call (409) 740-4736 from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. weekdays or
[9.8pt] visit  tamug.edu/counsel  for more information. For 24-hour emergency assistance during nights and
[9.8pt] weekends, contact the TAMUG Police Dept at (409) 740-4545. 24-hour emergency help is also
[9.8pt] available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at  988lifeline.org.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
If for any reason you are unable to attend a class you will need to email the
professor for an excused absence. The professor reserves the rights to assess if the
reason is valid or not and request any supporting documentation.
Missing quizzes or exams does not guarantee a makeup unless the reason
involves  significant and unavoidable circumstances, such as severe illness or
emergencies, and is properly documented .
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.