<!-- body_font:8.5pt -->
[18.3pt] College of Engineering
[12.2pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[12.2pt] CSCE 221 Syllabus
Section 506 (12352)
Data Structures and Algorithms
Spring 2026 - College Station
[12.2pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MWF
Start Time: 09:10AM
End Time: 10:00AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 310
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 12:40PM
End Time: 1:30PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 592
Credit Hours:  4
[12.2pt] Instructor Details
Roger Pearce
Email:  rpearce@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 110
Phone:  9798452744
Office Hours
[9.9pt] See the Course Resources on Canvas
Preferred Contact Method
email
[12.2pt] Catalog Description
Data Structures and Algorithms. (3-2). Credit 4. Specification and implementation of basic abstract data types and
their associated algorithms including stacks, queues, lists, sorting and selection, searching, graphs, and hashing;
performance tradeoffs of different implementations and asymptotic analysis of running time and memory usage;
includes the execution of student programs written in C++. Prerequisite: Grade C or better in CSCE 120 or CSCE
121; grade of C or better in CSCE 222 or ECEN 222, or concurrent enrollment.
[12.2pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade C or better in CSCE 120 or CSCE 121; grade of C or better in
CSCE 222/ECEN 222 or ECEN 222/CSCE 222, or concurrent enrollment.
[12.2pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Design and implement a variety of data structures  that support efficient data manipulation using the
C++ programming language.
[8.4pt bold] Apply Big ‑ O asymptotic notation  to analyze algorithmic efficiency and select appropriate algorithms
based on runtime and memory considerations.
[12.2pt] Special Course Designation
None
[12.2pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Data Structures and Algorithm Analysis in C++
ISBN:  978-0132847377
Authors:  Mark A. Weiss
Publisher:  Pearson
Publication Date:  June 13, 2013
Edition:  4th edition
[12.2pt] Additional Instructional Materials
This Material is: Optional
A free website devoted to teaching you how to program in modern C++
URL for Resource:  http://learncpp.com/
[12.2pt] Grading Policy
[9.9pt] Grading Criteria
[9.9pt] Score
[9.9pt] Grade
[9.9pt] 90 - 100
[9.9pt] A
[9.9pt] 80 - 89.9
[9.9pt] B
[9.9pt] 70 - 79.9
[9.9pt] C
[9.9pt] 60 - 69.9
[9.9pt] D
[9.9pt] Score
[9.9pt] Grade
[9.9pt] 0 - 59.9
[9.9pt] F
[9.9pt] Grade Weights
[9.9pt] Component
[9.9pt] Weight
[9.9pt] Homework Assignments
[9.9pt] 9%
[9.9pt] Programming Assignments
[9.9pt] 24%
[9.9pt] Lab Activities
[9.9pt] 10%
[9.9pt] Quizzes
[9.9pt] 12%
[9.9pt] Midterm Exam 1
[9.9pt] 15%
[9.9pt] Midterm Exam 2
[9.9pt] 15%
[9.9pt] Final Exam
[9.9pt] 15%
[12.2pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not considered late work and is exempt
from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[12.2pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[9.9pt] Make-up exams and quizzes will only be given with documented University-approved
[9.9pt] excuses, see  University Regulations . The student  Rule 07  explains policies and excused
[9.9pt] absences.
[9.9pt] A homework assignment will be accepted up to  1 day late with a 5% penalty . Once
[9.9pt] solutions have been discussed or handed out the assignments will not be accepted.
[9.9pt] Please discuss unusual circumstances in advance with the instructor.
[12.2pt] Course Schedule
[8.0pt] Course Schedule
[8.0pt] Module
[8.0pt] Week/Day
[8.0pt] Topic
[8.0pt] 01
[8.0pt] Jan 12 - 16
[8.0pt] Introduction to Data Structures
[8.0pt] Pointers, Arrays, Vectors
[8.0pt] Introduction to Analysis of Algorithms
[8.0pt] 02
[8.0pt] Jan 19 - 23
[8.0pt] Complexity of Search and Sort Algorithms
[8.0pt] Algorithms – Best, Worst, Average Cases
[8.0pt] Jan 19
[8.0pt] MKL Day (no classes)
[8.0pt] 03
[8.0pt] Jan 26 - 30
[8.0pt] The Lower Bound Theorem
[8.0pt] Linear Sort Algorithms
[8.0pt] Stack ADT – Array Based Implementation
[8.0pt] 04
[8.0pt] Feb 02 - 06
[8.0pt] Queue ADT – Array-based Implementation
[8.0pt] Amortized Analysis
[8.0pt] Stack and Queue Applications; Parser
[8.0pt] Module
[8.0pt] Week/Day
[8.0pt] Topic
[8.0pt] 05
[8.0pt] Feb 09 - 13
[8.0pt] Linked Lists (Stack and Queue based)
[8.0pt] Dequeues
[8.0pt] Recursive Algorithms
[8.0pt] Feb 09
[8.0pt] Midterm Exam 1
[8.0pt] 06
[8.0pt] Feb 16 - 20
[8.0pt] Analysis of Divide-and-Conquer Algorithms
[8.0pt] Iterating and Master Methods
[8.0pt] 07
[8.0pt] Feb 23 - 27
[8.0pt] Binary Search Trees
[8.0pt] AVL Trees
[8.0pt] Read-Black Trees
[8.0pt] 08
[8.0pt] Mar 02 - 06
[8.0pt] 2-4 Trees
[8.0pt] Skip Lists
[8.0pt] Mar 02
[8.0pt] Midterm Grades
[8.0pt] Mar 18
[8.0pt] Midterm Exam 2
[8.0pt] Mar 09 - 13
[8.0pt] Spring Break (no classes)
[8.0pt] 09
[8.0pt] Mar 16 - 20
[8.0pt] Hashing
[8.0pt] Priority Queues
[8.0pt] Heap
[8.0pt] 10
[8.0pt] Mar 23 - 27
[8.0pt] Huffman Trees
[8.0pt] Graphs
[8.0pt] BFS and DFS
[8.0pt] 11
[8.0pt] Mar 30 - Apr 03
[8.0pt] Digraph Algorithms
[8.0pt] Apr 03
[8.0pt] Reading Day (no classes)
[8.0pt] 12
[8.0pt] Apr 06 - 10
[8.0pt] Shortest Path Algorithms
[8.0pt] Dijkstra Algorithms
[8.0pt] 13
[8.0pt] Apr 13 - 17
[8.0pt] Minimum Spanning Trees
[8.0pt] Prim's Algorithm
[8.0pt] Apr 14
[8.0pt] Q-Drop Deadline
[8.0pt] 14
[8.0pt] Apr 20 - 24
[8.0pt] Disjoint Set ADT
[8.0pt] 15
[8.0pt] Apr 27 - 29
[8.0pt] Kruskal Algorithm
[8.0pt] Apr 28
[8.0pt] Redefined Day (Friday)
[8.0pt] Last day of classes
[8.0pt] Final Review
[8.0pt] Apr 29
[8.0pt] Reading Day (no classes)
[8.0pt] May 1
[8.0pt] Final Exam: 8:00 am - 10:00 am
[12.2pt] Additional Course Information
[9.9pt] Your final grade will be determined based on written homework, programming
[9.9pt] assignments, lab activities, quizzes, and exams.
[9.9pt] The assignment handout will provide points distribution.
[9.9pt] All grade appeals must be made no later than one week after the grade is posted.
[9.9pt] The students lab attendance is required and will be taken on regular basis. 2 bonus points
[9.9pt] will be added to your final score if you have a perfect lab attendance, or 1 point if you have
[9.9pt] only one lab absence.
[9.9pt] The lecture attendance will be taken by pop quizzes. The students are responsible to learn
[9.9pt] all material covered in class, read the assigned text from the textbook and do homework
[9.9pt] assignments.
[9.9pt] All homework assignments will be announced in class and posted on Canvas.  See the
[9.9pt] link to the course calendar on Canvas for deadlines.
[9.9pt] The written part of homework assignments or programming reports, and the Cover Page
[9.9pt] should be typed  preferably using LaTeX or LaTeX-based apps,  for instance Overleaf (an
[9.9pt] online LaTeX text editor). The homework  in PDF format  should be submitted
[9.9pt] to  Gradescope .
[9.9pt] All programming assignments  should be implemented in C++ , compiled and run on a
[9.9pt] computer (preferably using Linux), and transferred to  Gradescope  for grading.
[9.9pt] Quizzes are over material covered during the lectures and/or assigned reading from the
[9.9pt] course material.
[9.9pt] The Instructor and/or TAs can request oral exam  to check student’s knowledge over
[9.9pt] material covered by test, homework, assignment or lecture and lab activities.
[9.9pt] Use Canvas to get access to the lecture notes, quizzes and tests, assignments, and check
[9.9pt] your grades on the regular basis during the semester.
[12.2pt] AI Statement
[9.9pt] This course assumes that all work submitted by students will be generated by the students
[9.9pt] themselves, although discussion with TAs, PTs and Instructor is allowed. Students should not
[9.9pt] have another person/entity do the writing of any portion of an assignment for them, which
[9.9pt] includes hiring a person or a company to write assignments and/or using artificial intelligence
[9.9pt] tools like ChatGPT. ( Adapted from University of Massachusetts Amherst )
[12.2pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
Galveston Students:
Technology Services - Help Desk
[8.0pt] E-mail:  Helpdesk@tamug.edu
[8.0pt] Phone: 409-740-4714
[8.0pt] Location: Bldg 3007 (CLB), Rm 113
[8.0pt] Hours: Monday - Friday 7:30am to 6:00pm
[8.0pt bold] Canvas LMS Technical Support
[8.0pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[8.0pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[8.0pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[8.0pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global navigation menu.
[8.0pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[12.2pt] Learning Resources
[9.9pt] Campuswire
[9.9pt] It is the consolidated and fully customizable home base for the course
[9.9pt] communication.
[9.9pt] It is a modern Q&A forum and chatrooms for group discussion
[9.9pt] Peer Teachers (PTs) help students to understand the material taught in classes and labs,
[9.9pt] practice computational thinking and improve programming skills.
[9.9pt] Peer Teacher Central location: PETR 127
[9.9pt] Website
[12.2pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty
Advisory Council established the wording of these policies.
[12.2pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work submitted to an instructor. If asked,
students must be able to produce proof that the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students
must keep appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the instructor request
it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures, academic integrity, and your
rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[12.2pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student responsibility. Students are
expected to attend class and to complete all assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused absences, including definitions, and
related documentation and timelines.
[12.2pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or when attendance contributes to a
student’s grade, for the reasons stated in Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work, including definitions, and related
documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate a period of more than 30 days
for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor”
( Student Rule 7, Section 7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to make up work missed because
of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section 7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie Honor Code and Student Conduct
Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[12.2pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory learning, living, and work
environments for all members of the University community. The University provides equal opportunity to all
employees, students, applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color, sex
(including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic information, or
veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all complaints of discrimination,
harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity, and related retaliation based on a protected class in
accordance with  System Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative Procedure
(SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In accordance with Title IX and its implementing
regulations, Texas A&M does not discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints regarding the non-discrimination
policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP & Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843,
979-458-8407, or email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of Education
Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the address and phone number of the office that
serves your area, or call 1-800-421-3481.
[12.2pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe and productive for all.
University policies and federal and state laws prohibit discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s
race, color, sex, (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This includes forms of sex-based
violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment, sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or learn more about their options
for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental health providers) are
mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe, experience or become aware of an incident that they
reasonably believe to be discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person who
was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must report the incident to the university.
[12.2pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning opportunities for all students. If you
experience barriers to your education due to a disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the
Disability Resources office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not limited to,
attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health conditions. All students are encouraged to
discuss their disability-related needs with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy
College Station, College of Medicine, School of Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology,
EnMed Program, Bush School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU Engineering
Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at McAllen and Texas A&M University at
Galveston should contact Disability Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-
disability@law.tamu.edu  to request accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the Disability Resource Center at Texas
A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences in Canyon should contact the
Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or
osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the office responsible for
approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu
or (979) 458-8407.
[12.2pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy and/or related conditions, such
as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as
they become aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances, accommodations could
include extended time to complete assignments or exams, changes in course sequence, or modifications to the
physical classroom environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of lactation space, and maintain
grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For
information regarding pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[12.2pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors influencing a student’s
academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by
utilizing the resources and services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages anytime, anywhere by phone or
chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at 979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your
nearest emergency room if you are currently experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-
hour emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at  988lifeline.org .
[12.2pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by limiting access to these records,
to establish the right of students to inspect and review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the
correction of inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information items can do so within
howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and
the student records policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social security number, citizenship, gender,
grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure
confidential treatment of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email address, local telephone number,
permanent telephone number, dates of attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification,
previous institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in officially recognized activities
and sports, medical residence location, and medical residence specialization.
[12.2pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse is critical to academic inquiry.
However, as a community of scholars, the university has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be
conducted in accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage civil dialogue
creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas and to have their ideas challenged in
respectful and responsible ways. Students can learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the
University's website  about the First Amendment.