<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 410 Syllabus
Section 501 (50611)
Operating Systems
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 5:30PM
End Time: 6:45PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  EABB 106
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Riccardo Bettati
Email:  bettati@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 102B
Phone:  9798455469
Office Hours
zoom: W 4pm-5pm; in-person F 11am-12pm.
Preferred Contact Method
piazza and email
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Operating Systems. (3-0). Credit 3. Hardware/software evolution leading to
contemporary operating systems; basic operating systems concepts; methods of
operating systems design and construction including algorithms for CPU
scheduling, memory and general resource allocation, process coordination and
management; case studies of several operating systems. Prerequisites: Grade of C
or better in CSCE 313; grade of C or better in CSCE 315 or CSCE 331.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
[12.0pt] This course gives an overview of the general architecture and the most
[12.0pt] important components of modern operating systems. The student will
[12.0pt] leverage knowledge acquired in previous courses on Computer Architecture
[12.0pt] and Computer Systems to understand (and to some level implement)
[12.0pt] aspects of operating systems, such as memory management, persistent
[12.0pt] storage and file systems, threading, scheduling, and resource management
[12.0pt] in general. The student will understand fundamental approaches to
[12.0pt] virtualization and what it takes to build a distributed system. The course will
[12.0pt] cover general aspects, realization approaches, and case studies. In addition,
[12.0pt] the student will implement a simple operating system that will be able to boot
[12.0pt] and run on a bare PC.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 313; grade of C or better
in CSCE 315 or CSCE 331.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Describe and compare the role, the architecture, and the major components of
an operating system.
Describe the role and operation of exception and interrupt handling in modern
operating systems.
Implement components of a virtual memory manager for a paged system.
Evaluate and compare various forms of concurrency mechanisms.
Evaluate and compare and apply various synchronization mechanisms, both
for single-processor and multiprocessor systems.
Implement components of a threading system for a single-processor system.
Implement components of a simple device driver.
Implement components of a simple file system.
Evaluate and compare the various virtualization approaches and their effect on
system performance.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Operating System Concepts
ISBN:  978-1118063330
Authors:  Silberschatz, Galvin, Gagne
Publisher:  John Wiley & Sons, Inc
Publication Date:  2012
Edition:  9th or 10th edition.
Notes:
(Any recent edition will be fine. Reading assignments in
the course will use the chapter numberings from the 9th
and 10th edition. If you use an earlier textbook, you will
have to map the chapters to your edition.)
This material Is: Required
Operating Systems Three Easy Pieces
ISBN:  9791156007395
Authors:  Remzi H.Arpaci-Dusseau
Publication Date:  2020-03-01
Notes:
[12.0pt] This book is available for free in PDF form. It can
[12.0pt] also be purchased as hardcopy.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[12.0pt bold] The course will have a  midterm  and a  final exam  (totaling 400 points). In
[12.0pt bold] addition, there will be a series of  design and programming
[12.0pt bold] assignments  (machine problems) that will walk the students through the
[12.0pt] steps of designing and developing a simple operating system (400 points).
[12.0pt bold] Finally, there will be a set of  daily quizzes  (100 points) and a set
[12.0pt bold] of  homework assignments  (100 points).
[12.0pt] The course will be using a standard letter grading scale.
[12.0pt] Standard Letter Grading Scale:
[12.0pt] A = 90% and above
[12.0pt] B = 80% and above
[12.0pt] C = 70% and above
[12.0pt] D = 60% and above
[12.0pt] F = less than 60%
[12.0pt bold] Note  that the total score for daily quizzes and for homework assignments
[12.0pt] may not sum up to exactly 100 points each by the end of the semester, but
[12.0pt] rather be off by a few points. If this happens, we will re-weigh the total score
[12.0pt] at the end of the semester to make it sum up to 100 points. As a result, the
[12.0pt] total score as indicated by Canvas may be slightly off.
[12.0pt bold] Submission of Assignments
[12.0pt] Homework assignments and machine problems will be posted and submitted
[12.0pt] on Canvas. It is the student’s responsibility to make sure that the correct
[12.0pt] assignment is submitted to the correct place. Also, Canvas submissions may
[12.0pt bold] look completed when they actually are not.  It is the student’s
[12.0pt bold] responsibility to make sure that the submission process is completed.
[12.0pt] It is best to download the submission and to confirm that the submission
[12.0pt] stored on Canvas is the intended one.
[12.0pt bold] Under no circumstances  will the instructor team consider material that has
[12.0pt] not been part of the original submission. If a student wants to add to or
[12.0pt] correct submitted files because they noticed that the original submission was
[12.0pt] wrong or incomplete, they can do this, but this will be considered as a new
[12.0pt] submission, and any late penalty will apply. The instructor and the TA’s will
[12.0pt] not consider non-submitted material, and they will not consider the file
[12.0pt] timestamps (as opposed to submission timestamps) as indication of
[12.0pt] completion of the assignment. (Time stamps of files can be easily tampered
[12.0pt] with and will therefore not be considered.) In some special cases we will
[12.0pt] consider GitHub timestamps to reconsider machine problem submissions.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[12.0pt] Deadlines for on-line quizzes and homework assignments will be hard.
[12.0pt] (Quizzes will disappear after the due date.) Late submissions will not be
[12.0pt] accepted. Unless noted otherwise, lateness for machine problems is
[12.0pt] penalized with 1/5 of the earned points per calendar day (1/3 during 10-week
[12.0pt] summer courses). Lateness penalty starts at the deadline and is pro-rated.
[12.0pt] This means that the student will incur a penalty of approximately 0.0139
[12.0pt] percent for each minute that their submission is late (0.0231 percent during
[12.0pt bold] 10-week summer courses).  No make-up work submissions will be
[12.0pt bold] accepted.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Weekly Schedule
​Week
Day
Topic
MPs
1 (Jan
12)
Tue
Thu
Project Setup,  Intro:  What is an OS?
Architectural Support, OS Structures
Mon:
MP1 out
2 (Jan
19)
Tue
Thu
System Calls
Interrupts and Exceptions on the x86
Sun: MP1
due
3 (Jan
26)
Tue
Thu
Memory:  Memory Allocation, Address Spaces
Paging, Advanced Paging
Mon:
MP2 out
4 (Feb
2)
Tue
Thu
The TLB, Paging on the x86
Segmentation, Beyond Physical Memory, Virtual
Memory Mechanisms
Sun: MP2
due
5 (Feb
9)
Tue
Thu
Page Replacement Policies I
Page Replacement Policies II, Recursive Page Table
Lookup
Mon:
MP3 out
6 (Feb
16)
Tue
Thu
Concurrency:  Intro
Scheduling
Sun: MP3
due
7 (Feb
23)
Tue
Thu
Thread Dispatching on the x86
Kernel vs. User level Threads, Event-based
Concurrency
Mon:
MP4 out
8 (Mar
2)
Tue
Thu
Midterm Exam (in class)
Synchronization:  Introduction
9 (Mar
9)
Tue
Thu
SPRING BREAK!​
10 (Mar
16)
Tue
Thu
SW Solutions to Critical Section Problem
HW Solutions to Critical Section Problem
Mon:
MP5 out
Wed:
MP4 due
11 (Mar
23)
Tue
Thu
Concurrent Data Structures
Atomic Transactions
Sun: MP5
due
12 (Mar
30)
Tue
Thu
I/O:  Intro, I/O Management and Device Drivers,
Disks
RAID, Flash Memory
Mon:
MP6 out
​Week
Day
Topic
MPs
13 (Apr
6)
Tue
Thu
File Systems:  Intro, File Allocation
UNIX File System, UNIX Fast File System
Sun: MP6
due
14 (Apr
13)
Tue
Thu
Journaled and Log-Based File Systems
Virtualization:  Introduction
Mon:
MP7 out
15 (Apr
20)
Tue
Thu
Virtualization Mechanisms
Memory Virtualization
MP7 due on Sunday, May 3
Final Exam on May 5, 3:30pm-5:30pm
[12.0pt bold] Note:   Machine Problems  are posted on Monday morning of the week
[12.0pt] where they are listed. They are due on Sunday night of the week where they
[12.0pt bold] are listed.  MP7 is due on May 3 . In order to allow for a timely grading, the
[12.0pt bold] due date for MP7 is  hard .
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[14.0pt] Attendance Policy:
[12.0pt bold] Classroom: In-person sections  will meet during scheduled class times in
[12.0pt bold] the assigned room. For  online sections , the class work for this course will
[12.0pt] be delivered completely on-line, and students are not required to be present
[12.0pt] on campus.
[12.0pt bold] Exams dates  are scheduled at the beginning of the semester, and make-up
[12.0pt] exams are given only in extraordinary circumstances. Two such cases are:
[12.0pt bold] Medical:  If a student cannot take an exam because of medical reasons,
[12.0pt] a doctor’s note is required in order to schedule a make-up exam
[12.0pt] (See Student Rule 7 for details).
[12.0pt bold] Mandatory Interviews:  If a student has to schedule a makeup exam
[12.0pt] because of a “mandatory” interview for employment or professional or
[12.0pt bold] graduate school, she or he has to submit  a written note from the
[12.0pt bold] organizer of the interview  stating that the interview is in fact mandatory
[12.0pt] and cannot be held at a different time. This note must be submitted to the
[12.0pt bold] instructor  at least 2 weeks before  the interview, and it must contain the
[12.0pt] contact information, including email and telephone number, of the person
[12.0pt] responsible for the interview. The instructor will then contact the
[12.0pt] organizer and confirm that the interview cannot be rescheduled.
[12.0pt] The university views class attendance and participation as an individual
[12.0pt] student responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete
[12.0pt] all assignments.
[12.0pt] Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about excused
[12.0pt] absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[14.0pt bold] Academic Integrity:
[12.0pt] “An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
[12.0pt] The most important value of this course is in its power of "demystification":
[12.0pt] You will experience a number of "aha, this is how it works!" moments, which
[12.0pt] are most valuable, and enjoyed best, when you experience that discovery
[12.0pt] through your own work, rather than copying somebody else's.
[12.0pt] You are encouraged to discuss solution approaches to programming
[12.0pt] assignments. The solution that you hand in has to be your own, however.
[12.0pt] This means that you are not to use any part (code, text, figures, etc.) that
[12.0pt] has been developed by others, including AI. Spelled out, this means:
[12.0pt] For programming assignments: Do not show or make available in any
[12.0pt] form to other students either design documents or code. Do not look at or
[12.0pt] use other students’ design documents or code. Do not make use of
[12.0pt] previous years’ solutions. Do not look at or download solutions from the
[12.0pt] Internet. Do not submit or make use of AI generated solutions.
[12.0pt] For homework: Do not make your homework available to other students.
[12.0pt] Do not copy from other students’ work. Do not look at or download
[12.0pt] solutions from the Internet. Do not submit or make use of AI generated
[12.0pt] solutions.
[12.0pt] For exams: Do not use any information from sources other than the
[12.0pt] exam form and allowed cheat sheets; disallowed sources of information
[12.0pt] include the Internet, books, notes, AI tools, or other students. Do not
[12.0pt] pass any information to other students. By information we mean any
[12.0pt] information, not even the time-of-day.
[12.0pt] How do we determine that plagiarism has happened? We will delegate our
[12.0pt] decisions to code-similarity detection tools and automated plagiarism
[12.0pt] detection tools. Whenever a tool flags your submission, we will treat it as a
[12.0pt] potential violation, and we will issue a report to the Aggie Honor System
[12.0pt] Office. So, to be safe, stay away from other students’ code and other
[12.0pt] solutions that are not your own!
[12.0pt] Once an alleged violation has been reported, it is Aggie Honor Systems
[12.0pt] Office policy to not allow the student to Q-drop the course until the student is
[12.0pt] cleared of the violation.
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
Galveston Students:
Technology Services - Help Desk
[10.5pt] E-mail:  Helpdesk@tamug.edu
[10.5pt] Phone: 409-740-4714
[10.5pt] Location: Bldg 3007 (CLB), Rm 113
[10.5pt] Hours: Monday - Friday 7:30am to 6:00pm
[10.5pt bold] Canvas LMS Technical Support
[10.5pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[10.5pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[10.5pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[10.5pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
[10.5pt] navigation menu.
[10.5pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.