<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[24.0pt] College of Engineering
[16.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering
[16.0pt] CSCE 482 Syllabus
Section 938 (42650)
Senior Capstone Design
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 3:00PM
End Time: 3:25PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  EABA 118
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 3:30PM
End Time: 6:00PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  EABA 118
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Tung Nguyen
Email:  tung@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 114
Phone:  9364192495
Office Hours
1:45 - 2:45 pm Monday
Preferred Contact Method
Email
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Senior Capstone Design. (1-6). Credit 3. Development of system integration skills for
solving real-world problems in computer science; significant team software project
that uses integration of advanced concepts across computer science
specializations; projects require design, implementation, documentation and
demonstration, as well as design methodology, management process and
teamwork. Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in CSCE 411, and CSCE 315 or CSCE
331; senior classification; also taught at Galveston campus.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 411, and CSCE 315 or
CSCE 331; senior classification; also taught at Galveston campus.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Analyze a complex computing problem and apply principles of computing
and other relevant disciplines to identify solutions.
Design, implement and evaluate a computing-based solution to meet a given
set of computing requirements in the context of the program's discipline.
Communicate effectively in a variety of professional contexts.
Recognize professional responsibilities and make informed judgements in
computing practice based on legal and ethical principles.
Collaborate effectively as a member or leader of a team engaged in activities
appropriate to the program's discipline.
Apply computer science theory and software implementation fundamentals
to produce computing-based solutions.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
UCRT - University Required Oral Communication
[11.0pt bold] To receive C credit for this course, you must pass the C component, with the C course
[11.0pt bold] communication requirement below:
[11.0pt bold] A minimum of  35% of your final grade  is based on written and oral communication
assignments.
[11.0pt bold] Of this communication component,  at least 70% is based on individually written
[11.0pt bold] work and individual public speaking ; group work does not count toward this
standard.
[11.0pt bold] To receive C credit, students must pass both the written and public speaking
[11.0pt bold] components of the course.  Failure to pass either component will result in failing the
course, regardless of performance on other assignments.
[11.0pt bold] Each student will produce at least 1250 words of individually written work and
[11.0pt bold] deliver a minimum of 5 minutes of individual public speaking.
Assignments fulfilling this requirement include individual progress reports, project
proposals, final technical documentation, and individual presentations or
demonstrations.
Resumes and related materials are accepted only if specific to the major; take-home
essay exams may count if they allow drafting and revision. Oral presentation slides,
scripts, web sites, and posters count when accompanied by individual presentations.
[11.0pt bold] No more than  10% of the communication grade may be assessed by undergraduate aides ,
and all grading by aides is supervised by the instructor.
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Design for Electrical and Computer Engineers: Theory
Concepts and Practice
Authors:  Ralph Ford, Chris Coulston
Publisher:  Learning Solutions
Publication Date:  2005-03-31
This material Is: Recommended
The Five Dysfunctions of a Team
ISBN:  9781038707789
Authors:  Patrick M Lencioni
Publication Date:  2024-09-12
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
The final grade you will receive in the class will be based on points accumulated
during the semester. The grading scale is as follows: F < 60%  ≤  D < 70%  ≤  C < 80%  ≤
B < 90%  ≤  A
Course project 1: 25%. Due 6th week.
Course project 2: 30%. Due 10th week.
Course project 3: 35%. Due 14th week.
Attendance: 10%.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late work policy is defined as submitting a deliverable after the established
deadline. Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is
not considered late work and is exempted from the late work policy (Student Rule
7).
Late work is accepted but deducted 0.5% per late hour.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Course schedule
Time
Activity
Week 1-2
Team formation and project topic
selection
Week 3-6
Iteration 1
Week 7-10
Iteration 2
Week 11-14
Iteration 3
Week 15
Final presentation
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[12.0pt] Course Expectations
Course expectations, in the form of a course appreciative agreement, will be reviewed and
agreed to in the first 2 weeks of class.
[11.0pt bold] The course provides  direct instruction in writing and public speaking  through lectures,
workshops, peer review, assignment models, and opportunities for practice and revision.
[11.0pt bold] Formative feedback  will be given on both writing and speaking assignments prior to final
grading, and students are expected to revise and improve major submissions and
presentations in response to instructor and peer evaluations.
[13.0pt] Course Copyright
The materials used within this course are copyrighted and include, but are not limited to, the
syllabi, quizzes, exams, homework, online handouts, course videos, audio, and visual
recordings of classes, etc. Because these materials are copyrighted, you do not have the right
to copy or distribute these materials, unless permission is explicitly granted.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Writing: Use of AI tools, including ChatGPT, is permitted in this course for students who wish to
use them. To adhere to our scholarly values, students must cite any AI-generated material that
informed their work (this includes in-text citations and/or use of quotations, and in your
reference list). Using an AI tool to generate content without proper attribution qualifies as
academic dishonesty.
See  https://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/qanda/data/faq/topics/Documentation/faq0422.
html  for information how to properly cite AI tools. (adapted from University of Massachusetts
Amherst,  https://cte.tamu.edu/getmedia/1d5e4ef6-97f1-4065-987f-3c9dfecbb7bd/TAMU-
CTE_GenAI-SyllabusStatementConsiderations.pdf )
Computer Code. In principle you may submit AI-generated code, or code that is based on or
derived from AI-generated code, as long as this use is properly documented in the comments:
you need to include the prompt and the significant parts of the response. AI tools may help
you avoid syntax errors, but there is no guarantee that the generated code is correct. It is your
responsibility to identify errors in program logic through comprehensive, documented testing.
Moreover, generated code, even if syntactically correct, may have significant scope for
improvement, in particular regarding separation of concerns and avoiding repetitions. The
submission itself must meet our standards of attribution and validation.(from Boris Steipe
(2023) “Syllabus Resources”. The Sentient Syllabus Project  http://sentientsyllabus.org  .)
[16.0pt] Technology Support
Technology Services (IT) - Main Campus
Hours: 24/7
Phone: (979) 845-8300
Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
Canvas LMS Technical Support
Hours: 24/7/365
Phone: (877) 354-4821
Email:  support@instructure.com
Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
navigation menu.
Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
Galveston Students:
Technology Services - Help Desk
[10.5pt] E-mail:  Helpdesk@tamug.edu
[10.5pt] Phone: 409-740-4714
[10.5pt] Location: Bldg 3007 (CLB), Rm 113
[10.5pt] Hours: Monday - Friday 7:30am to 6:00pm
[10.5pt bold] Canvas LMS Technical Support
[10.5pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[10.5pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[10.5pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[10.5pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas global
[10.5pt] navigation menu.
[10.5pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.
[16.0pt] University Policies
This section outlines the university-level policies that must be included in each
course syllabus. The TAMU Faculty Advisory Council established the wording of
these policies.
[16.0pt] Academic Integrity Statement and Policy
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work
submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that
the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep
appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the
instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct
case” (Section 20.1.2.3,  Student Rule 20 ).
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures,
academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at  aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] University Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7 i n its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
[11.0pt bold] Attendance is important.  Not attending weekly class meetings harms the other members of
your group and makes it much more difficult for the instructor to assess your contributions to
the group effort. Due to the undue burden your frequent absences have on the rest of the
[11.0pt bold] team,  more than five unexcused absences are an automatic failure .
The instructors will evaluate your attendance through frequent quizzes, meetings,
participation in the discussions, participation in assignments, and/or contributions to the
team. Upon instructors’ discretion, arriving to class late (> 5 minutes late), leaving early (> 5
minutes before class end), and/or not participating (e.g., not taking a quiz, not being present
for a status meeting, not submitting in class work, and/or doing work not related to the class)
can be considered an unexcused absence, depending on the circumstances. Oversleeping, a
term paper due, an exam to cram for, etc., are not valid reasons. The instructor reserves the
right to determine what constitutes a “valid reason” on a case-by-case basis.
Absence / lateness during days in which teams may need to work in a remote location to
accomplish certain assignments (e.g., presenting your work outside of class, interviewing
experts, meeting with mentors, accessing technologies outside of the classroom, etc.) count
toward the 5 unexcused absences, unless the absence / lateness are approved by the
instructor in advance. Students are expected to meet instructor’s requirements for check in,
activity reporting requirements, and/or timely submission of-class assignments.
You are responsible for monitoring / tracking your unexcused absences.
Students experiencing personal injury or illness that is too severe for the student to attend
class qualify for an excused absence (see  Student Rule 7, Section 7.2.2 ) assuming that
documentation and notification guidelines are followed.
[16.0pt] Makeup Work Policy
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or
when attendance contributes to a student’s grade, for the reasons stated in
Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about makeup work,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate
a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up
work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1 ).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to
make up work missed because of an unexcused absence” ( Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.2 ).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie
Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. ( See Student Rule 24 .)
[16.0pt] Notice of Nondiscrimination
Texas A&M University is committed to providing safe and non-discriminatory
learning, living, and work environments for all members of the University
community. The University provides equal opportunity to all employees, students,
applicants for employment or admission, and the public, regardless of race, color,
sex (including pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age,
disability, genetic information, or veteran status.
Texas A&M University will promptly, thoroughly, and fairly investigate and resolve all
complaints of discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), complicity,
and related retaliation based on a protected class in accordance with  System
Regulation 08.01.01 ,  University Rule 08.01.01.M1 ,  Standard Administrative
Procedure (SAP) 08.01.01.M1.01 , and applicable federal and state laws. In
accordance with Title IX and its implementing regulations, Texas A&M does not
discriminate on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity, including
admissions and employment.
The following person has been designated to handle inquiries and complaints
regarding the non-discrimination policies: Jennifer M. Smith, TAMU Associate VP &
Title IX Coordinator at YMCA Ste 108, College Station, TX 77843, 979-458-8407, or
email  civilrights@tamu.edu . For other reporting options, visit the  U.S. Department of
Education Office for Civil Rights Complaint Assessment System  to locate the
address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-
3481.
[16.0pt] Civil Rights, Free Speech, and Title IX Policies
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe
and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit
discrimination and harassment based on an individual’s race, color, sex, (including
pregnancy and related conditions), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status, or any other legally protected characteristic. This
includes forms of sex-based violence, such as sexual assault, sexual harassment,
sexual exploitation, dating/domestic violence, and stalking.
Students can report discrimination/harassment, access supportive resources, or
learn more about their options for resolving complaints on the  University’s Civil
Rights & Title IX webpage .
Students should be aware that all university employees (except medical or mental
health providers) are mandatory reporters, which means that if they observe,
experience or become aware of an incident that they reasonably believe to be
discrimination/harassment alleged to have been committed by or against a person
who was a student or employee at the time of the incident, the employee must
report the incident to the university.
[16.0pt] Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning
opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a
disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources
office on your campus (resources listed below). Disabilities may include, but are not
limited to, attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health
conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs
with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
To request academic accommodations, contact the designated ADA office based on
your location:
Texas A&M University, College of Nursing, College of Dentistry, Irma Lerma
Rangel College of Pharmacy College Station, College of Medicine, School of
Public Health, Institute of Biosciences and Technology, EnMed Program, Bush
School in Washington DC, Mays Business School – CityCentre, TAMU
Engineering Academies, Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at
McAllen and Texas A&M University at Galveston should contact Disability
Resources at (979) 845-1637 or  disability@tamu.edu .
Texas A&M University School of Law should contact the Office of Student
Affairs at (817) 212-4111 or  law-disability@law.tamu.edu  to request
accommodations.
Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville should contact the
Disability Resource Center at Texas A&M University-Kingsville at (361) 593-
3024 or  drc.center@tamuk.edu  to request accommodations.
Texas A&M University College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences
in Canyon should contact the Office of Student Accessibility at West Texas
A&M University – Canyon at (806) 651-2335 or  osa@wtamu.edu .
If you are experiencing difficulties with your approved accommodations, contact the
office responsible for approving your accommodations or the Texas A&M ADA
Coordinator Julie Kuder at  ADA.Coordinator@tamu.edu  or (979) 458-8407.
[16.0pt] Pregnancy Accommodations
Texas A&M provides reasonable accommodations to students due to pregnancy
and/or related conditions, such as childbirth, recovery, and lactation. Students
should contact the University’s  Pregnancy Coordinator  as soon as they become
aware of the need for accommodation. Depending on the circumstances,
accommodations could include extended time to complete assignments or exams,
changes in course sequence, or modifications to the physical classroom
environment.
Texas A&M will also allow a voluntary leave of absence, ensure the availability of
lactation space, and maintain grievance procedures to provide for the prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints of sex discrimination. For information regarding
pregnancy accommodations, email  TIX.Pregnancy@tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Statement on Mental Health and Wellness
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors
influencing a student’s academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are
encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and
services available through  University Health Services . The  TELUS Health Student
Support app  provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages
anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-
hour emergency support at 988 or  988lifeline.org .
Texas A&M College Station
Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services at
979.458.4584. Call 911 or visit your nearest emergency room if you are currently
experiencing a life-threatening situation or if your safety is at risk. 24-hour
emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at
988lifeline.org .
[16.0pt] Statement on the Family Educational Rights and
[16.0pt] Privacy Act (FERPA)
FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by
limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of
inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings.
Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information
items can do so within  howdy.tamu.edu  using the Directory Information
Withholding Form. The complete  FERPA Notice to Students  and the student records
policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.
Items that can never be identified as public information are a student’s social
security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR, or class schedule. All efforts will
be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment
of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.
Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email
address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of
attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous
institutions attended, degrees, honors and awards received, participation in
officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location, and medical
residence specialization.
[16.0pt] Free Speech and Civil Discourse
Texas A&M recognizes that the pursuit of truth through open and robust discourse
is critical to academic inquiry. However, as a community of scholars, the university
has an aspirational expectation that such discourse will be conducted in
accordance with Aggie Core Values. In this “marketplace of ideas,” we encourage
civil dialogue creating an environment that allows individuals to express their ideas
and to have their ideas challenged in respectful and responsible ways. Students can
learn more about Freedom of Expression and Free Speech on the  University's
website  about the First Amendment.