## Industrial and Systems Engineering ISEN 620 Syllabus

Section 600 (59274)
Survey of Optimization
Spring 2026 - College Station

## Course Information

Meeting Times: Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 2:20PM
End Time: 3:35PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location: ETB 1013


Credit Hours: 3

## Instructor Details

Shixuan Zhang
Email: shixuan.zhang@tamu.edu
Office Location: ETB 4031
Phone: 9794582362
Office Hours
Thursdays 3:45-4:45 pm

## Catalog Description

Survey of Optimization. (3-0). Credit 3. Theory and numerical methods for
deterministic linear and nonlinear optimization; topics include linear programming,


unconstrained-nonlinear optimization, constrained-nonlinear optimization,
Lagrange and K-K-T conditions, and numerical algorithms. Prerequisite: MATH 304
or MATH 311.

## Course Prerequisites

Prerequisite/Corequisite(s): MATH 304 or MATH 311.

## Course Learning Outcomes

Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:


consider real-world problems and determine appropriate optimization
models (linear or nonlinear, continuous, integer, or mixed-integer) to use;


apply simplex methods to solve continuous linear optimization problems and
interpret the solutions using duality theory;


describe main ideas of behind integer and mixed-integer optimization
solution methods, especially their connections to continuous linear
optimization methods;


recognize some basic nonlinear optimization methods and their potential
limitations based on model characteristics (convex versus nonconvex) and
solution goals (local versus global solutions).

## Special Course Designation

None

## Textbook and/or Resource Materials

This material Is: Recommended
A First Course in Linear Optimization
Authors: Jon Lee
Publisher: Published under CC BY 3.0
Edition: 4.07+
URL for Resource:
[https://github.com/jon77lee/JLee_LinearOptimizationBook/tree/master](https://github.com/jon77lee/JLee_LinearOptimizationBook/tree/master)


This material Is: Optional
Linear and Nonlinear Programming
ISBN: 978-3-030-85450-8
Authors: David G. Luenberger and Yinyu Ye
Publisher: Springer Cham
Publication Date: 2021
Edition: Fifth Edition


This material Is: Optional
Numerical Optimization
ISBN: 0-387-30303-0
Authors: Jorge Nocedal and Stephen J. Wright
Publisher: Springer
Publication Date: 2006
Edition: Second Edition

## Grading Policy

Grade Decomposition


|Tasks|Percentage|
|---|---|
|Homework Assignments|10%|
|Midterm Exam|40%|
|Final Exam|50%|


Both exams are closed-book. The tentative date for the midterm is February 24 (inclass). The final exam is [scheduled](https://aggie.tamu.edu/registration-and-records/classes/final-examination-schedules) on May 5, 1-3 pm. A 1-page cheat sheet and a
calculator (with no Internet access) are allowed for both exams.


Homework assignments will be given biweekly. Canvas is set up to allow multiple
submissions and only the last submitted assignment will be graded. Late
submission will incur a deduction of 5% per hour. Some homework assignments
will ask students to use computer tools. For these assignments, students need to
submit their source code, together with the computer outputs. The source code
must be done using designated computer programming languages, or those
approved by the instructor.


Final grades will be determined as follows.


Letter Grade Cutoffs

|Range|Letter Grade|
|---|---|
|[90%, 100%]|A|
|[80%, 90%)|B|
|[70%, 80%)|C|
|[60%, 70%)|D|
|[0%, 60%)|F|



About regrading, assignment or exam regrading requests will be considered if
received in writing via email, with the original work attached to your instructor or
the grader **no later than one week after the material was returned**. Note that
the instructor and the grader have the right to regrade the entirety, so it is possible
to lose points. Therefore, it is recommended that students should ask for regrading
only there is substantial reason that the grade is given in error.

## Late Work Policy

Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
[considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy (Student Rule 7).](https://student-rules.tamu.edu/rule07/)

## Course Specific Late Work Policy

Late submission for homework assignments is accepted with the reduction in
points (5% per hour). Makeup exams are only available for excused absence
defined in [Student Rule 7.](https://student-rules.tamu.edu/rule07/)

## Course Schedule

The following course schedule is tentative and subject to change, depending on the
actual progress and student feedback.


Week 1-4: Introduction and linear optimization modeling


Week 5-8: Simplex methods, linear optimization duality, and sensitivity
analysis


Week 9-10: Introduction to integer and mixed-integer optimization methods


Week 11-15: Selected topics in nonlinear optimization