# ISEN 637: Stochastic Dynamic Programming & Reinforcement Learning

Spring 2026


**Instructor:** Alfredo Garcia **Time:**
**Email:** [alfredo.garcia@tamu.edu](mailto:) **Place:**
**TA:**
**Email:**

## Instructor Office Hours

Garcia (Wed 1-2 pm at [https://tamu.zoom.us/j/98802916283)](https://tamu.zoom.us/j/98802916283) or by appointment


**Prerequisites:** ISEN 609 or equivalent


**Description:** This course introduces analytical and numerical tools for solving stochastic and deterministic
dynamic optimization problems in discrete time. The course is centered around a Markov decision process
(MDP) formulation of stochastic dynamic optimization. Bellman’s equation and properties of the value function
and of the optimal policy function are discussed for finite and infinite horizon problems. The course closes with
a survey of reinforcement learning methods such as Q-Learning, policy gradient and actor-critic.


**Objectives:** After taking this course, students will have the ability to:


1. Ability to formulate and analyze stochastic dynamic optimization problems.


2. Ability to use of numerical and/or statistical techniques to identify optimal solutions.


**Textbook:** Lecture notes will be distributed.
**Assignments** **&** **Grading** **Policy:**


Homework/Exercises (40%) 1 Mid-term Exam (25%) Final Project (35%)


All assignments are expected to be completed individually unless otherwise specified. Any disagreements
regarding a grade received on any graded material must be discussed within **one** **week** of the return of the
graded material. No grade will be changed beyond the one week limit. If you request a regrade, the entire
assignment will be regarded (i.e. if we made a mistake in your favor, this will also be corrected). Grades will
be calculated on the basis of total points earned. If deemed necessary, the grade thresholds may be curved at
the instructor’s discretion. The thresholds for letter grades are:


A: 90-100% B: 80-89% C: 70-79% D: 60-69% F: 59% and lower


**Course Attendance Policy:** You are expected to attend all class lectures except for university excused absences.
The university rule regarding excused absences can be found at `[http://student-rules.tamu.edu/rule07](http://student-rules.tamu.edu/rule07)` .


**Office** **Hours** **Policy:** We are usually in our offices during office hours and are glad to discuss anything with
you except material covered during an unexcused absence. If other students are already in our offices, please
join them. If you would like to discuss a private matter with us please schedule an appointment.


**Academic** **Honesty:** The Industrial & Systems Engineering Faculty uphold the Aggie Honor Code as an axiom
of academic excellence. We consider its sincere observance to be essential for membership in our department
and Texas A&M. We extend you the trust conferred to those who faithfully adhere to our honor code. Abuse
of this trust is intolerable, thus we will report and assign an extreme penalty to those who do not stand with
us in preserving the integrity symbolized by the Aggie Honor Code: “An Aggie does not lie, cheat, or steal or
tolerate those who do.”


page 1 of 3


ISEN 637 Spring 2026 Syllabus


In this course, we will request the Aggie Honor Office to assign a grade of F* for any violation of the Aggie
Honor Code, no matter how minimal the violation may be. (The Honor Council Rules and Procedures can be
found at `[http://aggiehonor.tamu.edu](http://aggiehonor.tamu.edu)` .)
It is acceptable for you to discuss any assignments except exams with other students prior to the due date.
After discussing an assignment with someone else, do not write anything that you do not understand and always
use your own language on the assignments. Copying another student’s writing directly, even if it is a portion of
the assignment, is considered cheating and an Aggie Honor Code violation. No leniency is given for academic
dishonesty.


**The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA):** a federal anti-discrimination statute that provides comprehensive
civil rights protection for persons with disabilities. Among other things, this legislation requires that all students
with disabilities be guaranteed a learning environment that provides for reasonable accommodation of their
disabilities. If you believe you have a disability requiring an accommodation, please contact Disability Services,
currently located in the Disability Services building at the Student Services at White Creek complex on west
campus or call 979-845-1637. For additional information visit `[http://disability.tamu.edu](http://disability.tamu.edu)` .


**Statement on Diversity and Inclusion:** It is important to us that **all** students feel accepted and comfortable in
this class. If for any reason you feel disrespected, uncomfortable, or unsafe in our classroom please discuss your
concerns with us via the medium you are most comfortable with. If you do not feel comfortable communicating
directly to us, please reach out to Dr. Ntaimo (department head).


**Other** **Pertinent** **Course** **Information:** All information related to the course, including handouts, will be made
available on ecampus.tamu.edu. All communication related to the course will be sent electronically via eCampus
as announcements or delivered to your @tamu.edu mailbox. You are expected to check your email regularly.


page 2 of 3


ISEN 637 Spring 2026 Syllabus

## Course Outline

Topic


1 Review of Markov Processes, Ergodic Theory and Stationary Processes.
2 Markov Decision Process (MDP), Examples: Inventory Control, Linear Quadratic Control.
3 Finite Horizon Dynamic Programming, Principle of Optimality, Value Iteration.
4 Infinite Horizon Dynamic Programming. Policy Iteration. Euler’s Equation.
5 Partially Observable MDPs.

## Midterm

8 Reinforcement Learning.
9 Regularized MDPs, Q-Learning.
10 Policy Gradients.
11 Actor-Critic methods.
12 Inverse Reinforcement Learning.
13 Stochastic Dynamic Games. Markov-Perfect Equilibrium.


page 3 of 3