<!-- body_font:10.5pt -->
[16.0pt] ISEN 620 Syllabus
[11.0pt] Section 601 (52745)
[11.0pt] Survey of Optimization
[11.0pt] Fall 2025 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
[11.0pt] Credit Hours:  3
[11.0pt] Meeting Times: TR 2:20 PM – 3:35 PM
[11.0pt] Classroom: ETB 2026
[11.0pt] Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
[11.0pt] Sergiy Butenko
[11.0pt] Email:  butenko@tamu.edu
[11.0pt] Office:  ETB 4037
[11.0pt] Phone:  979-458-2333
[11.0pt] Office Hours
[13.0pt] TR  10:00-11:00  AM   or   by   appointment
[16.0pt] Course Description
This is an introductory course discussing theory and numerical methods for deterministic
linear and nonlinear optimization. Topics to be discussed include linear programming,
unconstrained and constrained nonlinear optimization, including classical optimality
conditions and numerical algorithms.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
[11.0pt] Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  MATH 304 or MATH 311.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
[11.0pt] None
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
[11.0pt] Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
[11.0pt bold] Analyze  and  apply  linear and nonlinear programming theory and algorithms.
[11.0pt bold] Formulate  linear and nonlinear optimization models from real-world problems.
[11.0pt bold] Solve  small-scale optimization problems by hand and  utilize  optimization software to
[11.0pt] solve large-scale problems.
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
[11.0pt] This material Is: Required
[11.0pt] Course Handbook
[11.0pt] URL for Resource:
[11.0pt] https://drive.google.com/file/d/1KOF0V8vKpe1CiqwJAJ24
[11.0pt] 9Ubqrsqv-IXw/view?usp=sharing
[11.0pt] This material Is: Recommended
[11.0pt] Numerical Methods and Optimization
[11.0pt] ISBN:  9781466577787
[11.0pt] Authors:  Sergiy Butenko, Panos M. Pardalos
[11.0pt] Publisher:  CRC Press
[11.0pt] Publication Date:  2014-03-11
[11.0pt] Notes:
[13.0pt] The   course   manual   with   all   the   materials
[13.0pt] required   for   successful   completion   of   the
[13.0pt] course   is   provided .  In   addition ,  it   is
[13.0pt] recommended  ( but   not   required )  to   have   at
[13.0pt] least   one   reference   text   covering   linear   and
[13.0pt] nonlinear   optimization ,  such   as   Numerical
[13.0pt] Methods   and   Optimization :  An   Introduction   by
[13.0pt] Butenko   and   Pardalos ,  ISBN : 978-1466577770
[13.0pt] or   Linear   and   Nonlinear   Optimization   by   Griva ,
[13.0pt] Nash   and   Sofer ,  ISBN  978-0-898716-61-0.
[13.0pt] Additional   references :  Introduction   to
[13.0pt] Mathematical   Programming   by   Winston   and
[13.0pt] Venkataramanan ,  Fourth   Edition ,  Duxbury ;
[13.0pt] Linear   Programming   and   Network   Flows   by
[13.0pt] Bazarra ,  Jarvis   and   Sherali ,  Second   Edition ,
[13.0pt] Wiley ;  An   Introduction   to   Optimization   by
[13.0pt] Chong   and   Zak ,  Second   Edition ,  Wiley .
[16.0pt] Additional Instructional Materials
[11.0pt] This Material is: Required
[11.0pt] Software and Computing Resources
[11.0pt] Notes:
[13.0pt] The   course   is   computing - intensive .  The   required   advanced
[13.0pt] optimization   software  ( AMPL )  will   be   made   available   for   download
[13.0pt] on   Canvas  ( for   Windows ,  Mac ,  and   Linux ).  You   must   ensure   access
[13.0pt] to   a   computer   that   runs   AMPL   and   Excel  ( or   a   compatible
[13.0pt] spreadsheet   application   with   Solver   add - on ).
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
All graded assignments will be open book/notes and must be completed via Canvas. It is
crucial that all the graded work is completed on your own, in accordance with the Aggie
Honor Code and the rules specified for each assignment. Any violations of academic
integrity rules will result in severe penalties, such as F ∗  for the course and report to the
honor council. A preliminary, automatically generated grade will appear on Canvas
immediately upon submission of your work, however, this grade may not be final, as
some assignments will require submitting additional materials (such as a scan of your
work and/or computer codes) for grading.
There will be the total of 40 graded assignments, described next.
• 4 Exams – 20% each. The exams will be open book/notes. Each exam will be
proctored to maintain scholastic integrity of the program. The instructor will provide Zoom
proctoring. If the exam dates/times specified in the detailed schedule below do not work
for you, you should notify the instructor no later than Friday preceding the first exam, so
that alternative arrangements can be made.
• 11 Homework Quizzes – 15%. The homework quizzes will be conducted via Canvas,
no proctor is required. The quizzes will be based on the practice problems, solutions to
which are provided in the course handbook (“Solution Manual” chapter). The quizzes will
be timed, but you will have the flexibility to take them any time before the midnight of the
quiz date specified in the course schedule.
• 25 Lecture Quizzes – 5%. Lecture quizzes are based on the videos of lectures and
should be taken according to the schedule at page 6.
The final letter grades will be calculated using the formula
weighted average = 0.05(lec quiz average)+0.15(hw quiz average)+0.8(exam average)
and will be assigned as follows. A: [90,100], B: [80,90), C: [70,80), D: [60,70), F: [0,60).
Optional Final Exam will be offered as a chance to improve your final grade. The exam
will consist of the problems of the same types as the four exams given during the
semester. You will be able to choose which problems to solve. You will have two hours to
complete the exam, and the score for each problem you attempt will replace the score
you obtained for the problem of the same type in the original exam (whenever the new
score is higher).
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
[11.0pt] Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
[11.0pt] considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
While you are expected to follow the schedule above for best learning outcomes, the due
dates are not strictly enforced. Late submissions will not be penalized, as long as they
are completed before the exam covering the corresponding material. If an exam is
missed, you must contact the instructor as soon as possible with a written authorized
excuse. Make up exams will be given in accordance with University Rules (see Rule 7
at  http://student-rules.tamu.edu ).
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[10.5pt bold] Week
[10.5pt bold] Date
[10.5pt bold] Topic
[10.5pt bold] Deliverable
[10.5pt bold] Part 1: LP Basics
1
T
8/26
Lec. 1: Introduction
Lec 1 quiz
R
8/28
Lec. 2: Introduction to Optimization Software
Lec 2 quiz
2
T 9/2
Lec. 3: LP Modeling
Lec 3 quiz
R 9/4
Lec. 4: LP Assumptions and Graphical Method
Lec 4 quiz
3
T 9/9
[10.5pt bold] Homework quiz #1 due
Hw quiz 1
T 9/9
Lec. 5: Simplex Method: An Introduction
Lec 5 quiz
R
9/11
Lec. 6: Simplex Method: Termination &
Initialization
Lec 6 quiz
[10.5pt bold] Week
[10.5pt bold] Date
[10.5pt bold] Topic
[10.5pt bold] Deliverable
4
T
9/16
[10.5pt bold] Homework quiz #2 due
Hw quiz 2
T
9/16
Lec. 7: Analysis of the Simplex Method
Lec 7 quiz
R
9/18
[10.5pt bold] Homework quiz #3 due
Hw quiz 3
R
9/18
[10.5pt bold] Exam 1 (6:00–7:30 PM Zoom)
Exam 1
[10.5pt bold] Part 2: Duality and Sensitivity Analysis, IP Modeling
5
T
9/23
Lec. 8: LP Duality: Introduction
Lec 8 quiz
R
9/25
Lec. 9: Complementary Slackness
Lec 9 quiz
6
T
9/30
Lec. 10: Simplex Method in Matrix Form
Lec 10 quiz
R
10/2
[10.5pt bold] Homework quiz #4 due
Hw quiz 4
R
10/2
Lec. 11: Sensitivity Analysis
Lec 11 quiz
7
T
10/7
Lec. 12: Sensitivity Analysis
Lec 12 quiz
R
10/9
[10.5pt bold] Homework quiz #5 due
Hw quiz 5
R
10/9
Lec. 13: IP Modeling
Lec 13 quiz
8
T
10/14
Fall Break
Deep breath
R
10/16
Lec. 14: IP Modeling
Lec 14 quiz
[10.5pt bold] Week
[10.5pt bold] Date
[10.5pt bold] Topic
[10.5pt bold] Deliverable
9
M
10/20
[10.5pt bold] Homework quiz #6 due
Hw quiz 6
T
10/21
[10.5pt bold] Exam 2 (6:00–7:30 PM Zoom)
Exam 2
R
10/23
Lec. 15: Nonlinear Opt.: Preliminaries
Lec 15 quiz
[10.5pt bold] Part 3: Unconstrained Optimization
10
T
10/28
Lec. 16: FONC for Unconstrained Problems
Lec 16 quiz
R
10/30
Lec. 17: Second Order Optimality Conditions
Lec 17 quiz
11
T
11/4
[10.5pt bold] Homework quiz #7 due
Hw quiz 7
T
11/4
Lec. 18: Root Finding & Line Search
Lec 18 quiz
R
11/6
Lec. 19: Steepest Descent Method
Lec 19 quiz
12
M
11/10
[10.5pt bold] Homework quiz #8 due
Hw quiz 8
T
11/11
[10.5pt bold] Exam 3 (6:00–7:30 PM Zoom)
Exam 3
R
11/13
Lec. 20: Newton’s Method
Lec 20 quiz
13
T
11/18
Lec. 21: Conjugate Direction Methods
Lec 21 quiz
R
11/20
[10.5pt bold] Homework quiz #9 due
Hw quiz 9
R
11/20
Lec. 22: FONC for Equality Constraints
Lec 22 quiz
[10.5pt bold] Week
[10.5pt bold] Date
[10.5pt bold] Topic
[10.5pt bold] Deliverable
[10.5pt bold] Part 4: Constrained Optimization
14
T
11/25
Lec. 23: Karush-Kuhn-Tucker Conditions
Lec 23 quiz
R
11/27
Thanksgiving Holiday
Celebrate!
15
T
12/2
[10.5pt bold] Homework quiz #10 due
Hw quiz 10
T
12/2
Lec. 24: Second Order Optimality Conditions
Lec 24 quiz
W
12/3
[10.5pt bold] Homework quiz #11 due
Hw quiz 11
R
12/4
[10.5pt bold] Exam 4 (6:00–8:00 PM Zoom)
Exam 4
17
T
12/16
[10.5pt bold] Optional Final Exam (1:00–3:00 PM / 6:00–
[10.5pt bold] 7:30 PM Zoom)
Final Exam
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[10.5pt bold] Course Format and Expectations
Section 700: The distance learning version of the course does not involve regular class
meetings, however, individual or group meetings with the instructor can be arranged by
appointment. You are expected to complete graded assignments (lecture quizzes,
homework quizzes, and exams) according to the schedule outlined in “Course Topics
and Schedule” section of this document (page 6). Each chapter of the course handbook
covers one lecture, with the material provided in the form of text and pointers to pre-
recorded videos of lectures available on YouTube and Google Drive.
[10.5pt bold] Expected Time Commitment
The course is structured in a way that requires timely attention to the material in order to
succeed. You are expected to allocate a similar amount of time to the course as you
would with a regular 3-credit on-campus course. More specifically, you are expected to
spend around 4.5 hours 1  per week attending the lectures or reviewing the videos of
lectures (the actual video files are shorter, taking into account the time for activities, such
as taking notes, during which you would pause the video). In addition to the lecture time,
you are expected to spend at least 9 hours per week on homework assignments, such
as reading the course manual, solving problems, and implementing and running
optimization models. You should be prepared to dedicate sufficient time in order to
master the material at the level that will benefit your professional career.
[10.5pt bold] Communication
The following means of communication will be used during the course: Canvas,
GroupMe, email, Zoom. The course website will be maintained through Canvas. This site
will contain all the required course materials, including the lecture notes, slides, software
packages used, homework assignments, quizzes, exams, and grades. Please check the
web site daily – you are expected to be aware of any information posted on it within 24
hours. You will need to use your TAMU NetId to log in. In addition, the course-related
discussions will be facilitated using a GroupMe chat. You are strongly encouraged to join
the course group (the link and the QR code are provided above). Communication via
GroupMe provides the quickest way of getting your questions concerning the course
answered.
All major announcements concerning the course will be communicated to the class via
email (in addition to announcements on Canvas and GroupMe). Zoom will be used for
proctoring the exams as well as office hours. You will be required to log in Zoom with
your Net ID and use video for exams. The exam sessions will be recorded.
1 An academic hour is 50 minutes.