<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 399 Syllabus
Section 500 (54958)
High-Impact Experience
Fall 2025 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: INS
Meeting Days:
Start Time: N/A
End Time: N/A
Start Date: 08/25/2025
End Date: 12/16/2025
Credit Hours:  0
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Shawna Thomas
Email:  sthomas@tamu.edu
Office:  319 Peterson
Phone:  979-862-8877
Office Hours
I would be happy to meet with you. Email me to set up a
time that works for both of us.
Preferred Contact Method
Email. I always want to hear from you, but at certain
times of the semester the volume of email becomes
large. If you email me and don't hear back within two
business days, please send a follow up email. I will
appreciate the kind reminder.
Webpage:  https://sthomas.engr.tamu.edu/
[16.0pt] Course Description
Participation in an approved high-impact learning practice; documentation and self-
assessment of learning experience.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Junior or senior classification; also taught at
Galveston campus.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, you will be able to:
Identify  key features of your high-impact learning experience
Reflect  on how your high-impact learning experience impacted you
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Optional
No Textbook Needed
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
This course is graded on a pass/fail (S/U) basis.
To pass (S), you must:
have an approved high-impact learning experience completed  and
submit an acceptable self-reflection with acceptable external documentation
by the last day of classes.
The high-impact learning experience must meet the Department of Computer
Science and Engineering's high-impact experience policy (included in the course
materials). The instructor will decide if a submission is “successful” or “incomplete.”
Incomplete submissions will be returned to the student for revision and must be
resubmitted by the last day of classes.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
There is no penalty for late submissions, however submissions and resubmissions
will not be accepted after the last day of classes.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Course assignment dates:
1.  Activity Checker Survey  [due end of week 1, closes last day of classes]: verify
your completed activity qualifies
2.  ENGR[x] Submission Quiz (required to pass)  [due end of week 11, closes
last day of classes]: describe your activity, provide external documentation of
successful completion, and reflect on your experience
Your external documentation must be from the sponsor of the
experience and confirm successful completion. (Offer letters for the
activity do not qualify.)
Your self-reflection must use the template provided on Canvas.
Submissions and resubmissions will not be accepted after the last day of classes.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
The materials used within this course are copyrighted. These materials include, but
are not limited to, the syllabus, quizzes, assignments, activity descriptions, online
content, course videos, audio and visual recordings of classes, etc. Because these
materials are copyrighted, you do not have the right to copy or distribute these
materials, unless permission is expressly granted.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
According to the Texas A&M University Definitions of Academic Misconduct,
plagiarism is the appropriation of another person's ideas, processes, results or
words without giving appropriate credit ( aggiehonor.tamu.edu ). You should credit
your use of anyone else's words, graphic images, or ideas using standard citation
styles.  Artificial Intelligence (AI) text generators and natural language
processing tools (colloquially, chatbots - such as ChatGPT), audio, computer
code, video, and image generators should not be used for any work for this
class  without explicit permission of the instructor and appropriate attribution. This
includes, but is not limited to,
1. Creating or revising drafts
2. Editing your work
3. Reviewing a peer's work
This excludes pre-existing software additions such as spelling and grammar
checkers, which are acceptable.