<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 689 Syllabus
Section 603 (62419)
Special Topics in...
Fall 2025 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 3:55PM
End Time: 5:10PM
Start Date: 08/25/2025
End Date: 12/16/2025
Meeting Location:  HRBB 113
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Zhengzhong Tu
Email:  tzz@tamu.edu
Office:  PETR 220
Phone:  979-845-5904
Office Hours
Tues 5:30 PM - 6:15PM
[16.0pt] Course Description
A seminar course in generative artificial intelligence; deep learning basics;
convolutional neural networks; advanced architectures like vision transformers;
variational autoencoders (VAEs) and generative adversarial networks (GANs);
diffusion models and applications; creative AI; video generative models; 3D and
multimodality; large language models (LLMs); vision-language models (VLMs); large
language model agents and applications. This course will be blended with lectures
and student presentations, as well as group project presentations.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
N/A
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
List and describe standard methods of generative models in language and
vision.
Describe the pros and cons of various types of generative models
Articulate the need for generative models
Identify the evaluation methods for generative models in language and vision
Apply generative modeling approaches to real-world applications
Conduct literature reviews, summarize recent research, and develop new
research ideas
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Deep Learning
Authors:  Ian Goodfellow, Yoshua Bengio, Aaron Courville
Publication Date:  2016
This material Is: Recommended
Computer Vision: Algorithms and Applications
Authors:  Richard Szeliski
Publication Date:  2010
This material Is: Recommended
Dive into Deep Learning
Authors:  Aston Zhang, Zack Lipton, Mu Li, Alex Smola
Publication Date:  2019
This material Is: Recommended
The Little Book of Deep Learning
Authors:  FRANÇOIS FLEURET
Publication Date:  2024
This material Is: Recommended
Probabilistic Machine Learning: An Introduction
Authors:  Kevin Murphy
Publication Date:  2022
This material Is: Recommended
Foundations of Computer Vision
Authors:  Antonio Torralba, Philip Isola, William T. Freeman
Publication Date:  2024
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Topic Studies
Paper Reviews 15%
Student Presentation  15%
Class Participation  10%
Final Project  60%
Milestone 1 Report (2-pager; Proposal Report) 10%
Milestone 2 Report (4-pager; Midterm Report) 10%
Final Presentation 20%
Final report and code review  20%
There will be no final exam
The grading scale will be:
A = 90-100
B = 80-89
C = 70-79
D = 60-69
F = <60
Any academic misconduct in this course will result in a grade of F.
Description of Graded Work
The students should practice and learn how to identify a research gap in a
specific topic in generative AI, conduct literature reviews and paper
presentations, and close critical gaps in the final project session. At first,
students should choose one specific topic and do the following tasks
surrounding their chose topic.
Students are expected to present some interesting recent papers in class,
one each time, which they must do individually, for a given topic study. The
paper presentation session should be similar to the conference oral
presentation, demonstrating the understanding of research papers and
practicing the presentation skills to deliver key contributions and
methodologies of the reviewed research. The papers are pre-selected and
assigned by the instructor.
Students are also expected to submit a critical review/summary of the papers
that are to be presented in the class. Students should identify a specific
theme or topic and submit at least three paper reviews in a cohesive
formulation. Note that these three papers should be different from the one
you present during the lecture.
Students should be expected to attend an in-class mid-term exam (quizzes)
to assess their understanding of the concepts and knowledge covered in the
lectures. The exam will happen during the lecture, with time to be
determined.
Students are expected to attend both the lecture and presentation classes.
Asking questions after paper presentation or final project presentation will
receive a bonus point (up to 3%)
Students will form small groups (1-4 students in each group, formed in the
first few weeks) to conduct collaborative research activities until the final
project presentation. Students will learn how to conduct research by
identifying a research problem, running experiments, coding, and iterating
until they write a technical report and give a presentation. The students
should learn how to collaborate and communicate in a research group.
The final report should be an 8-page technical report using the CVPR
template:  https://github.com/cvpr-org/author-kit/releases .
Supplementary materials are optional.
The final project code should be submitted as a Zip file or as a Google
Drive link (it must be accessible). A clearly written README file should
be included on how to run the project.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
For late submission, each additional late day will incur a 10% penalty, no exception.
• 1 day late: 10% penalty
• 2 days late: 20% penalty
• 3 days late: 30% penalty
• 4 days late: 50% penalty
• 5 or more days late: 100% penalty
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempted from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
The student is responsible for informing the instructor in a timely manner about
excused absences. The instructor will then work with the student to catch up on
their submissions, including missed group class participation.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
WeekTopics
1
Introduction to Generative AI; Representation Learning: Supervised and
Unsupervised
2
Deep Learning Backbones, Building Blocks and Architectures;
Generative Models: Autoregressive Models; Transformer Deep Dive
3
Autoregressive Transformers; Autoencoders; Variational Autoencoders
(VAE), VQ-VAE, GANs
4
Diffusion Models: Methods and Applications; Introduction to Large
Language Models and Multimodal Models
5
Fine-tuning and adaptation of LLMs and VLMs;
Trustworthiness of LLMs: Hallucination, Alignment, and RAG
6
Trustworthiness of LLMs: Safety and Security;
Reasoning, Planning, and Agents
7
Student Presentation #1 #2 (Topics selected by instructor)
8
Student Presentation - #3 (Topics selected by instructor)
9
Student Presentation #4 #5 (Topics selected by instructor)
10
Student Presentation #6 #7 (Topics selected by instructor)
11
Student Presentation #8 #9 (Topics selected by instructor)
12
Student Presentation #10 #11 (Topics selected by instructor)
13
Student Presentation #12; Final Project Presentations
14
Final Project Presentations
15
No Class
16
Final Project Report Due
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Use of Generative AI
With the emergence of artificial intelligence (AI) technologies, the ways in which we
define our creative processes continue to transform. The presence of such tools,
however, does not replace our need to learn how to draft, revise, and reflect on
texts, programs, and lectures, as well as how to exercise information literacy and
personal responsibility in how we locate, evaluate, incorporate, and cite primary or
secondary sources.
Overall, education includes preparing leaders to be the innovators and leaders of
tomorrow. That means we need to learn to use emerging technologies responsibly.
Therefore, generative AI tools (e.g., ChatGPT, Google, Bard, Dall-E 2) is permitted on
assignments in this course if you wish to use them. AI is not intended to do all the
work for you but rather to get you started with ideas or to provide feedback on your
progress.
To adhere to scholarly values, cite any AI-generated material that informed your
work (this includes in-text citations and/or use of quotations, and in a reference list).
Using an AI tool to generate content without proper attribution qualifies as
academic dishonesty. As a general rule, no more than 30% of an assignment should
come directly from text generated from an AI tool. For an example of how to cite a
generative AI tool using APA 7th edition, see the APA Style Blog for the correct way
to cite ChatGPT. You would use this citation within the text (body of your
paper/assignment) and for your references list.