<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] ISEN 441 Syllabus
Section 501 (59132)
System Reliability Engineering
Fall 2025 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 12:45PM
End Time: 2:00PM
Start Date: 08/25/2025
End Date: 12/16/2025
Meeting Location:  ZACH 442
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Nancy Currie-Gregg
Email:  currie-gregg@tamu.edu
Office:  ETB 4080 | ZACH 510C
Phone:  979-458-2342
Office Hours
Monday 4:00-5:00 p.m. | Thursday 10:00-11:00 a.m.
Preferred Contact Method
Communication with the instructor throughout the semester is highly encouraged.
Students needing assistance should attend office hours with either the instructor or
GTA. Additionally, to provide timely responses to student questions and rapid
delivery of announcements to the class, an MS Teams site will be established and
used throughout the semester. All students must have access to MS Teams and
accept the invitation to join the course site. Communication via MS Teams is highly
preferred instead of email.
Any communications with the instructor that contain personal information must be
done via private chat through MS Teams. MS Teams chats/messages may also be
used for student-student communications or to post questions to the entire class
or sub-groups.
Webpage:  https://safe.engr.tamu.edu/
Biography
Dr. Nancy Currie-Gregg is the Director of the Texas A&M University Space Institute.
As the Don Lummus '58 Professor of Practice in Engineering, she holds joint
appointments in the Departments of Aerospace Engineering and Industrial and
Systems Engineering at Texas A&M University's College of Engineering.
Internationally recognized for her human-system integration, safety engineering,
and risk management expertise, her research focuses on optimizing human
performance and safety in aerospace systems. She also serves on the Board of
Directors for the Texas Space Commission, leading initiatives that promote growth
across all sectors of the Texas space economy.
Dr. Currie-Gregg spent the majority of her career supporting NASA's human
spaceflight programs. A former NASA astronaut, she flew on four space shuttle
missions, logging over 1,000 hours in space, and made significant contributions to
the development of human spaceflight operations. Following the Space Shuttle
Columbia tragedy, she managed the Space Shuttle Program Safety and Mission
Assurance Office, overseeing the agency's return-to-flight efforts. She later served
as Principal Engineer and Chief Engineer with the NASA Engineering and Safety
Center, where she led independent engineering assessments for high-risk human
spaceflight initiatives. A retired U.S. Army Colonel and Master Army Aviator, she
accrued more than 4,000 flight hours in both rotary- and fixed-wing aircraft.
Dr. Currie-Gregg holds a Bachelor's degree in Biological Sciences with honors from
The Ohio State University, a Master of Science in Safety Engineering from the
University of Southern California, and a Ph.D. in Industrial Engineering from the
University of Houston.
Socials
https://www.linkedin.com/in/curriegregg/
[16.0pt] Course Description
Methods of system modeling and analysis to predict and enhance the reliability,
maintainability, and availability of aerospace systems including component and
systems reliability models, system life prediction, and data collection and analysis of
failure and repair distributions.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in STAT 211 or equivalent; junior
or senior classification.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
This is a cross-listed course with both AERO and ISEN sections due to the
interdisciplinary nature of the subject. It is also stacked with the graduate versions
of the course (AERO 689). Graduate and undergraduate students will have different
requirements and weighting for quizzes, homework assignments, and the course
project.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Apply probabilistic methods to evaluate aerospace component and system
reliabilities.
Analyze reliability, availability, and maintainability estimates to recommend
preferred system architectures and/or designs.
Understand how to collect failure and repair data and analyze that data to fit
reliability distributions.
Apply course methods and techniques to assess a real-world case study or
problem involving the reliability of systems.
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Reliability and Risk Analysis
ISBN:  9781000864137
Authors:  Mohammad Modarres, Katrina Groth
Publisher:  CRC Press
Publication Date:  2023-04-26
Edition:  2nd Ed.
Notes:
E-book available through TAMU library
This material Is: Required
An Introduction to Reliability and Maintainability
Engineering
ISBN:  9781478639336
Authors:  Charles E. Ebeling
Publisher:  Waveland Press
Publication Date:  2019-04-12
Edition:  3rd. Ed.
[16.0pt] Additional Instructional Materials
This Material is: Optional
Applied Statistics and Probability for Engineers,
WileyPLUS
ISBN:  9781119758723
Authors:  Douglas C. Montgomery, George C. Runger
Publisher:  Wiley
Publication Date:  2020-07-08
Edition:  7e
URL for Resource:  https://education.wiley.com
Notes:
This is a self-paced review for probability and statistics
that is available via a WileyPlus course. Students can use
this resource to ensure they have an appropriate
probability and statistics background for success in this
course.
Note: Students may register for a free two-week trial
account on WileyPlus. If access is desired for an
extended period, there is a minimal fee for a student
license for five months of access to the WileyPlus course.
Alternatively, lifetime access to the e-book is also
available.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Your performance in the course is evaluated via multiple learning activities (exams,
homework, case study, and lecture activities). The final course grade will be
determined via the following weights:
Method of Evaluation
Percent of Grade
Exams (Exam 1: 25%; Exam 2: 25%)
50%
Homework
25%
Project
15%
Quizzes
05%
Activities
05%
Grading Scale (based on weighted total)
A
90-100%
B
80-89%
C
70-79%
D
60-69%
F
<60%
Exams
There will be two exams during the course. All exams will be open-book and open-
notes. Students are encouraged to develop their own reference/equation sheets
and/or software tools that may be used during the exam. All students must strictly
adhere to the  Aggie Honor Code  during examinations. Only course resources, or
those created by the individual student, may be accessed during the exam. Use of
AI tools during exams is strictly prohibited.
Exam Dates
Date
Material covered in
exam
Exam 1
09-23-2025
Lectures 2-8
Exam 2
10-28-2025
Lectures 9-16
Exam Re-grading Policy
Students have 24 hours following the release of exam grades to correct any errors
on quantitative problems and submit for re-grading. Non-quantitative and extra
credit problems will not be eligible for re-grading and will be denoted as such on
each exam. If the resubmitted solutions are complete and correct, and all work to
derive the new solution is shown, then 50% of the points originally deducted will be
awarded.
The re-grading period is considered part of the exam period. Students must work
on the corrections individually and MAY NOT consult with any other person,
including current/former students, teaching assistants, graders, or professors, when
developing their corrections. Any violation of this policy will be considered cheating
and a  violation of the Aggie Honor Code .
Homework
There will be approximately seven homework assignments during the course.
Instructions, due dates and times, and points associated with each homework
assignment will be announced during lectures and through Canvas. Study groups
are encouraged, but each student is responsible for developing solutions and
submitting them electronically via Canvas. No paper copies will be accepted.
Project
A project will be completed to demonstrate the practical application of the course
material, with an emphasis on the series of lectures on failure analysis. A project
report containing the results from the reliability/failure analysis will be submitted
after the conclusion of the failure analysis module.
Quizzes
Low-stakes quizzes (5% of the course grade) will be used to provide students with
the opportunity to identify and remedy potential learning gaps. All quizzes will be
open-book and open-notes. Students are encouraged to develop their own
reference/equation sheets and/or software tools that may be used during quizzes.
Only course resources, or those created by the individual student, may be accessed
during quizzes. Since quizzes are a form of active learning, no re-grading is offered
for quizzes.
If a student misses a quiz due to a university-excused absence (see  Student Rule 7) ,
and has notified the instructor, in writing, in advance prior to the absence, they may
make up the quiz by 5:00 p.m. CT the day following the lecture period in which the
quiz was given.
Lecture Activities
This course will utilize active learning methods during lecture periods, including
group activities. To incentivize course participation and encourage student
engagement, all students who attend a lecture and complete the associated lecture
activity will be given full credit.
No late lecture activities will be accepted. If a student misses an activity due to a
university-excused absence (see  Student Rule 7 ), and has notified the instructor, in
writing, in advance of the absence, they may complete and submit the activity for
credit by 5:00 p.m. CT the day following the lecture period in which the activity was
completed.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Homework and case study assignments submitted after the due date/time will not
receive total credit, unless due to a university-excused absence (see attendance
policy). Points will be deducted for assignments submitted past the due date and
time on Canvas—equivalent to 20% of the total points possible for each day, or
portion thereof, past the due date. Assignments submitted more than five days
after the due date will not be accepted and a score of zero will be recorded for the
assignment.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Course topics
Reliability characterization
Reliability testing and prediction
Component reliability analysis
System failure analysis
System reliability analysis
Repairable systems and availability
State-dependent system analysis
Case studies
[12.0pt] Detailed Course Schedule
Date
Lecture Topics
08/26/25
1
Course Introduction
Course introduction; Intro to Reliability Engineering
08/28/25
09/02/25
2
3
Basic reliability engineering mathematics
Probability review & Discrete probability distribution
Discrete probability distributions
09/04/25
09/09/25
09/11/25
09/16/25
09/18/25
4
5
6
7
8
Component reliability analysis
Reliability characterization
Constant failure rate models (Exponential/Gamma)
Time-dependent failure rate models: Normal
Time-dependent failure rate models: Weibull
Time-dependent failure rate models: Lognormal
09/23/25
Exam 1 (Lectures 2-8)
09/25/25
09/30/25
10/02/25
10/07/25
9
10
11
12
System reliability analysis
Serial & parallel configurations
Complex systems reliability
State-dependent systems
State-dependent systems
10/09/25
10/14/25
10/16/25
10/21/25
10/23/25
13
14
15
16
Reliability testing and prediction
Reliability testing
Fall break: No classes
Reliability testing & allocation
Hypothesis testing
Estimation of reliability distribution parameters
Date
Lecture Topics
10/28/25
Exam 2 (Lectures 9-16)
10/30/25
11/04/25
11/0625
11/11/25
11/13/25
17
18
19
20
21
System failure analysis
Failure Modes and Effect Analysis (FMEA)
Failure modes, effects, & criticality analysis (FMECA)
Fault Tree Analysis (FTA)
FTA evaluation/ Event Trees/Bow Tie Analysis
Case Study/Human Reliability Analysis (HRA)
11/18/25
11/20/25
11/25/25
22
23
24
Repairability & Availability
Availability variables & Repair time distributions
Availability metrics for repairable systems
Maintainability
11/27/25
Thanksgiving Day: No classes
12/02/25
25
Case studies
12/04/25
26
Quiz: Lectures 22-24, Review of course
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
Course materials and copyright:
The materials used in this course are copyrighted. "Materials" includes all items
produced for this course, such as the syllabus, detailed course schedule, lecture
slides, online lecture videos, homework or exam questions and solutions, and
additional resources posted on the course site by the instructor. You may not copy
or distribute these materials unless expressly granted permission by the author.