<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 654 Syllabus
Section 600 (62088)
Supercomputing
Fall 2025 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 2:20PM
End Time: 3:35PM
Start Date: 08/25/2025
End Date: 12/16/2025
Meeting Location:  HRBB 126
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Ariful Azad
Email:  ariful@tamu.edu
Office:  PETR 215
Phone:  ‭(979) 845-5351‬
Office Hours
Tuesday 1pm – 2pm
[16.0pt] Course Description
This course discusses supercomputing architectures, developing programs for
supercomputers, parallel training and inference of AI models using
supercomputers, and various large-scale scientific applications.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Learn what modern supercomputers look like and how to use them
Learn how to write parallel programs (CPU, GPU, and distributed
computations) for supercomputers.
Learn how to use supercomputers for large-scale AI models.
Learn how to use supercomputers for large-scale scientific applications
Read research papers and develop a comprehensive project
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Optional
This course does not mandate any textbook. The lecture slides/videos and other
materials provided by the instructor will be sufficient, serving as the primary
reference.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Component
Weight
Midterm Exam
20%
Homework (3)
30%
Mini Programming Exercises
10%
Paper Reading and Presentation (1)
10%
Component
Weight
Projects (presentation and report)
30%
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late submissions will incur a 20% penalty for each day past the deadline. Assignments
submitted more than 4 days late will receive no credit.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[11.0pt bold] Class
[11.0pt bold] Topics
[11.0pt bold] Module 1: Foundations of Supercomputing (3 lectures, 1 mini
[11.0pt bold] exercise, 1 HW)
1
What is supercomputing? Supercomputer applications and examples of
the world’s fastest supercomputers
2
What does a supercomputer look like? Architecture of modern
supercomputers.
3
How to use a supercomputer? Job submission and monitoring. An in-
class exercise of using a supercomputer (15 minutes. Students are
expected to bring their laptops.
4
Visit TAMU’s supercomputing center.
[11.0pt bold] Module 2: Programming for Supercomputers (5 lectures, 4 in-class
[11.0pt bold] exercises, 1 HW)
5
Introduction to distributed programming using MPI. MPI Basics and
Point-to-Point Communication (15 minutes Hands-on exercise in the
class)
6
MPI Collectives and Performance Optimization. Collective
communications include broadcast, reduce, gather, and all-to-all. (15
minutes Hands-on exercise in the class)
7
Multithreaded programming with OpenMP. Discuss parallel
programming for multicore processors (15 minutes hands-on exercise in
the class)
8
GPU programming with CUDA. Discuss GPU architecture and parallel
programming for GPUs (15 minutes hands-on exercise in the class)
9
Hybrid programming. How to use MPI, OpenMP and CUDA together.
Interpreting scalability plots and Amdahl’s law.
[11.0pt bold] Module 3: AI at Scale (5 lectures, 3 in-class exercises, 1 HW)
[11.0pt bold] Project proposals are due after the fall break
10
Parallelism strategies. Data and model parallelism. SGD batching.
Example in PyTorch
11
More Parallelism strategies. Tensor and pipeline parallelism. (30
minutes Hands-on exercise in the class)
12
LLM Training using supercomputers. Transformer models and scaling
laws. Example Frameworks: DeepSpeed, Megatron-LM, FSDP
13
Midterm exam (just before the fall break)
14
LLM Inference and Efficiency. LLM inference at scale: latency, cost,
batching. Quantization, sparsity, Mixture-of-Experts
15
Other AI models and software Infrastructure for deep learning.
[11.0pt bold] Module 4: Paper reading and presentation (3 classes for
[11.0pt bold] presentation)
16
Student paper reading and presentation (based on your project)
17
Student paper reading and presentation (based on your project)
18
Student paper reading and presentation (based on your project)
[11.0pt bold] Module 5: Scientific Computing on Supercomputer (3 lectures, 1 in-
[11.0pt bold] class exercise)
19
Matrix Computations and Solvers
20
Irregular and Graph Computations
21
Scientific simulations on supercomputers
22
Project final presentation
23
Project final presentation