<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 221 Syllabus
Section 550 (53957)
Data Structures and Algorithms
Fall 2025 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 08:45AM
End Time: 10:00AM
Start Date: 08/25/2025
End Date: 12/16/2025
Meeting Location:  PMEC 146
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 12:40PM
End Time: 1:30PM
Start Date: 08/25/2025
End Date: 12/16/2025
Meeting Location:  CLB 112
Credit Hours:  4
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Unal Goktas
Email:  ugoktas@tamu.edu
Office:  Sea Aggie Center (SAGC) 706 (Galveston)
Phone:  409-740-5515
Office Hours
[12.0pt] link to office hours page
Preferred Contact Method
Email
[16.0pt] Course Description
Specification, analysis and implementation of abstract data types for lists, stacks,
queues, trees, hash tables, graphs, and their associated algorithms. Performance
trade-offs of different implementations; asymptotic analysis of running time and
memory usage. Includes the execution of students programs written in C++;
emphasis on adherence to good software engineering principles.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade C or better in CSCE 120 or CSCE 121; grade of
C or better in CSCE 222/ECEN 222 or ECEN 222/CSCE 222, or concurrent
enrollment.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Design and implement diverse data structures that allow easy access and
manipulation of data using C++ programming language.
Apply the Big-O asymptotic notation to analyze and select an efficient
algorithm for solving a given problem with respect to runtime and memory
usage.
Identify the latest developments in the Computer Science area or be familiar
with Turing award winners.
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Data Structures and Algorithm Analysis in C++
ISBN:  9780132847377
Authors:  Mark Allen Weiss
Publisher:  Addison-Wesley
Publication Date:  2014-01-01
[16.0pt] Additional Instructional Materials
This Material is: Optional
Also, you may need a textbook on C++ language from the previous semester, or any
good C++ reference book(s).
This Material is: Required
Web, Zoom, Canvas and Gradescope access. The course material, assignments
turn-in, and posting grades are handled through Canvas and/or Gradescope. The
recommended browsers to access Canvas are Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome and
Microsoft Edge.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Grading Criteria
Grading Scale
Homework Assignments
9%
90-100
A
Programming Assignments
27%
80-89.9
B
Culture Assignment
4%
70-79.9
C
Quizzes
15%
60-69.9
D
Exam 1
15%
0-59.9
F
Exam 2
15%
Exam 3
15%
Lab Attendance (Bonus)
2%
Technical Interview Programming
Tasks (Bonus)
4%
Your final grade will be determined based on written homework,
programming assignments, cultural assignment, quizzes, and exams.
The assignment handout will provide points distribution. Each programming
assignment will be graded focused on: algorithm design, usage of data
structures and/or new user-defined types and their implementation, its
correctness, tests, and results of computational experiments.
All grade appeals must be made no later than one week after the grade
is posted.
Graded Attendance
The lab attendance is required and will be taken on regular basis.
The lecture attendance will be recorded by taking pop quizzes. The students
are responsible to learn all material covered in class, read the assigned text
from the textbook and do homework assignments.
2 bonus points will be added to your final score if you have a perfect lab
attendance, or 1 point if you have only one lab absence.
Students can earn up to 4 bonus points, to be added to their final course
score, bycompleting programming tasks in the style of technical interview
questions.
Notes about graded materials
[12.0pt bold] All homework assignments will be announced in class and posted
[12.0pt bold] on Canvas.  See the link to the course calendar on Canvas for
[12.0pt] deadlines.
[12.0pt] The written part of homework assignments and the Cover Page should
[12.0pt bold] be typed  preferably using LaTeX  or  LaTeX-based apps : overleaf (an
[12.0pt] online LaTeX text editor) or LyX (document processor based on
[12.0pt bold] LaTeX), see the class webpage for a LyX tutorial. The homework  in
[12.0pt bold] PDF format  should be submitted to Gradescope.
[12.0pt bold] All programming assignments  should be implemented in C++ ,
[12.0pt] compiled and run on a computer (preferably using Linux), and
[12.0pt] transferred to Gradescope for grading.
[12.0pt] Culture assignments allow you to explore the latest developments in
[12.0pt] Computer Science and Engineering or learn about the famous
[12.0pt] computer scientists like Turing Award winners. The assignments
[12.0pt] should be submitted to Canvas.
[12.0pt] Quizzes are over material covered during the lectures and assigned
[12.0pt] reading from the textbook.
[12.0pt bold] This course assumes that all work submitted by students will be
[12.0pt bold] generated by the students themselves, although discussion with
[12.0pt bold] TAs, PTs and Instructor is allowed. Students should not have
[12.0pt bold] another person/entity do the writing of any portion of an
[12.0pt bold] assignment for them, which includes hiring a person or a
[12.0pt bold] company to write assignments and/or using artificial intelligence
[12.0pt bold] tools like ChatGPT.   (Adapted from University of Massachusetts
[12.0pt] Amherst)
[12.0pt] Instructor and TAs can request oral exam to check student’s
[12.0pt] knowledge over material covered by test or assignment.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
A homework assignment will be accepted up to 1 day late with a 5% penalty. Once
solutions have been discussed or handed out, the assignments will not be
accepted. Please discuss unusual circumstances in advance with the instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Module Week
Day
Topic
Module
1
Aug. 25
M
Introduction to Data Structures
Pointers, Arrays, Vectors
Introduction to Analysis of Algorithms
Module
2
Sept. 01
M
Labor Day: Sept. 01 (no classes)
Complexity of Search and Sort Algorithms
Algorithms – Best, Worst, Average Cases
Module
3
Sept. 08
M
The Lower Bound Theorem
Linear Sort Algorithms
Stack ADT – Array Based Implementation
Module
4
Sept. 15
M
Queue ADT – Array-based Implementation
Amortized Analysis
Stack and Queue Applications. Parser
Module
5
Sept. 22
M
Linked Lists in C++
Linked List-based Stack and Queue
Exam 1
Module
5
Sept. 29
M
Linked List-based Stack and Queue
Dequeues
Recursive Algorithms
Module
6
Oct. 06
M
Analysis of Divide-and-Conquer Algorithms
Iterating and Master Methods
Mid-semester grades: Oct. 13
Module Week
Day
Topic
Module
7
Oct. 13
M
Fall Break: Oct. 13 & 14
Trees | Binary Search Trees
AVL Trees
Red-Black Trees
Module
8
Oct. 20
M
2–4 Trees
Skip Lists
Hashing
Priority Queues
Module
9
Oct. 27
M
Heap | Huffman Trees
Graphs
Exam 2
Module
10
Nov. 03
M
BFS | DFS
Digraph Algorithms
Module
11
Nov. 10
M
Shortest Path Algorithms
Module
12
Nov. 17
M
Dijkstra's Algorithm
Q-drop deadline: Nov. 19
Module
12
Nov. 24
M
Minimum Spanning Trees
Prim's Algorithm
Disjoint sets ADT
Reading day: Nov. 26 (no classes)
Thanksgiving holiday: Nov. 27 & 28
Module
13
Dec. 01
M
Kruskal's Algorithm
Dec. 08
M
Review - Last day of classes
Reading days: Dec. 09 & 10
Module Week
Day
Topic
Dec. 11-16
Final Exam
550: Dec. 12 (F), 8:00 am-10:00 am
The topics and related chapters from the textbook:
Introduction
C++ Overview: Arrays, Vectors, Strings, Matrices
Chap. 1
Introduction to Analysis of Algorithms
Chap. 2
Lists, Stacks, and Queues
Chap. 3
Trees and Search Trees
Chap. 4
Balanced Search Trees
Chap. 12.2
Hashing
Chap. 5
Priority Queues. Heaps.
Chap. 6
Sorting
Chap. 7
Disjoint Sets
Chap. 8
Graphs
Chap. 9
Algorithms Design
Chap. 10
All changes in the schedule will be announced in class and at the class calendar.
Please see also  University Academic Calendar .
Use Canvas to get access to the lecture notes, quizzes, tests, assignments, and
check your grades on the regular basis during the semester.