<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] ISEN 302 Syllabus
Section 501 (11603)
Economic Analysis of Engineering Projects
Fall 2025 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 12:40PM
End Time: 1:30PM
Start Date: 08/25/2025
End Date: 12/16/2025
Meeting Location:  ZACH 344
Credit Hours:  2
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Scott Miller
Email:  s.miller@tamu.edu
Office:  ETB 4074
Phone:  979-845-2795
Office Hours
MTR - 10-11:30am, W - 2-3:30pm, or by appointment
[16.0pt] Course Description
Principles of economic equivalence; time value of money; analysis of single and
multiple investments; comparison of alternatives; capital recovery and after-tax
analysis of economic projects
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in MATH 152 or MATH 172; also
taught at Qatar campus.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
• Make engineering decisions based on an economic analysis of alternatives
• Explain and demonstrate the principles of economic equivalence and time value
of money
• Formulate and solve equations using interest factors and formulas
• Distinguish between nominal and effective interest rates and convert between
them
• Identify and determine constituent cash flows of single and/or multiple
investments
• Examine, diagram, and compare investment alternatives on an economic basis
using appropriate terminology
• Conclude and justify the best investment alternative(s) based on appropriate
analysis
• Develop and construct spreadsheet models to investigate alternatives
• Determine and utilize appropriate capital recovery methods for alternatives
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Engineering Economic Analysis
ISBN:  9780190063467
Authors:  Don Newnan, Ted Eschenbach, Jerome Lavelle,
Neal Lewis
Publication Date:  2019-02-13
Edition:  14th
URL for Resource:
https://global.oup.com/ushe/product/engineering-
economic-analysis-9780190931940?
q=engineering%20economic%20analysis&cc=us&lang=e
n
Notes:
This book was out of print for a while and while the
bookstore indicates it is available again, it is likely not in
stock. A link to the e-book is provided, that is a more
economical option that is recommended.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Exams: 3@25% = 75%
Homework: 15%
Quizzes: 10%
We will have three exams per the class schedule. Exams are not cumulative, but the
material does build upon itself, so knowledge of previous material will likely be
necessary for subsequent exams.
Homework will typically be assigned weekly and due within one week, consisting of
problems from our book and other sources. Submission of the assignments will be
electronic, uploaded to our Canvas site unless otherwise directed. Purpose of the
assignment is to reinforce your understanding of the material. I encourage you to
work with a group, but all work must be submitted individually. Your grade and
comments regarding the homework will be sent to you electronically as the grading
is completed.
Occasional in-class assignments/quizzes will be given to ensure you are keeping up
with the material. These may be unannounced.
The university letter grade policy is followed (>=90%: A; 80 - <90%: B; 70 - <80%: C;
60 - <70%: D; < 60%: F)
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
No make-up examinations or assignments will be allowed unless prior
arrangements have been made with the instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
The course website will be maintained through  http://canvas.tamu.edu/ . This site
will contain announcements and other information concerning the course. In
addition, it will be used to distribute class materials (homework assignments, notes)
and grades. Check the website regularly; and information posted on it will be as
valid as if it was mentioned in class. Quizzes may be electronic or written.
A major reason for taking this class is to prepare you for the Fundamentals of
Engineering (FE) exam. To this end, students are strongly encouraged to use
calculators that are approved by NCEES for use on the FE. The NCEES website
( http://ncees.org/exams/calculator-policy/ ) provides a list of the current approved
calculator brands and models.
All exams are closed-book/notes/computer/smartphone. Calculator is
allowed.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
According to the Texas A&M University Definitions of Academic Misconduct,
plagiarism is the appropriation of another person's ideas, processes, results or
words without giving appropriate credit (aggiehonor.tamu.edu). You should credit
your use of anyone else's words, graphic images, or ideas using standard citation
styles. Artificial Intelligence (AI) text generators and natural language processing
tools (colloquially, chatbots - such as ChatGPT), audio, computer code, video, and
image generators should not be used for any work for this class without explicit
permission of the instructor and appropriate attribution. This includes, but is not
limited to,
i. Creating or revising drafts
ii. Editing your work
iii. Reviewing a peer's work
This excludes pre-existing software additions such as spelling and grammar
checkers, which are acceptable.