<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 314 Syllabus
Section 200 (58466)
Programming Languages
Fall 2025 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 11:10AM
End Time: 12:25PM
Start Date: 08/25/2025
End Date: 12/16/2025
Meeting Location:  ZACH 244
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Hyunyoung Lee
Email:  hlee42@tamu.edu
Office:  PETR 419
Phone:  979-845-2490
Office Hours
[13.0pt] See   Office   Hours   page   on   Canvas   course   homepage
Preferred Contact Method
email
Webpage:  https://people.engr.tamu.edu/hlee42/index.html
[16.0pt] Course Description
[10.5pt] This course explores the design space of programming languages via an in-depth
[10.5pt] study of two programming languages, one functional (Haskell) and one object-
[10.5pt] oriented (Java). It focuses on idiomatic uses of each language and on features
[10.5pt] characteristic for each language.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 221, or concurrent
enrollment.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Use modern programming languages more effectively and be able to learn
new programming languages more easily.
They will get a broader understanding of language constructs, common
abstraction mechanisms, and efficiency considerations.
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Programming in Haskell, 2nd Ed.
ISBN:  978-1316626221
Authors:  Graham Hutton
Publisher:  Cambridge University Press
Edition:  Second Edition
URL for Resource:  https://people.cs.nott.ac.uk/pszgmh/pih.html
Notes:
Reserved at the TAMU library.
The easiest way to install Haskell on your computer:  https://www.haskell.org/ghcup/
This material Is: Optional
The Java Programming Language, 4th Ed.
ISBN:  978-0-321-34980-4
Authors:  Ken Arnold, James Gosling, and David Holmes
Edition:  Fourth Edition
Notes:
Reserved at the TAMU library; also eBook available via the TAMU library: From the
following website > click "Sign In" > choose "Texas A&M University" from the list of
affiliated institutions > use your NetID credential to access the eBook:
https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/the-javatm-programming/0321349806/
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
One midterm exam and one comprehensive final exam, each 25%. The midterm
exam will be taken in our classroom during the class time. The final exam will be
taken in our classroom starting at the time set by the registrar. Each exam is for 75
minutes. See the course schedule below for the exam dates and times.
Programming Homework 15%: There will be about eight sets of programming
homework (approximately one homework set every 2 weeks except the first two
sets), which mainly consist of programming and step-by-step explanation of your
program.
Project 10%: You will choose a topic that is discussed in class or is included in our
two textbooks and study the topic deeper than what is discussed in class or in the
textbook. For example, you can study a bit deeper on Haskell's or Java's type
systems or on polymorphism in those two languages (you could add up to two
other languages if you want to do some comparison study). Another example can
be: you can choose two other functional languages and do some comparison study
among Haskell and the other two functional languages, or similarly for object-
oriented languages including Java. You will submit four incremental reports showing
your work in progress (see the course schedule below for the timeline): 1. project
proposal (1~2 pages), 2. first draft (3~4 pages), 3. second draft (5~6 pages), 4. final
report (7~9 pages). You must type your reports in LaTeX with font size 11 or 12 and
reasonable page margins. The page limits stated above do not include references.
Any use of AI is strictly prohibited in this course.
Quizzes 15%: There will be weekly (about 11) quizzes. One lowest quiz grade will be
dropped.
Exercises 10%: There will be weekly (about 13) exercises. One lowest exercise grade
will be dropped.
Final grades will be assigned according to this scale based on the weighted final
average:
A: 90 and above,
B: [80--90),
C: [70--80),
D: [60--70),
F: below 60
The scale may be adjusted by the instructor to reflect score variations.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late submission beyond the deadline will not be accepted in general, unless a
university-sanctioned excuse is provided ahead of time. Programming Homework
submission is the only exception: late submission of homework beyond the
deadline will incur 5% deduction per hour late (Canvas rounds up to the hour). For
example, if you submit your work within one hour after the deadline, 5% of your
grade will be deducted. If you submit your work 2 hours and 2 minutes after the
deadline, then your grade will be deducted by 15%.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Midterm Exam: Thursday, 10/2 in our classroom during our class time
Final Exam: Thursday, 12/11, 3:00-4:15 PM in our classroom
[10.5pt] (Tentative schedule; see Canvas Modules for more details. Reading: [H] Haskell
[10.5pt] textbook, [J] Java textbook)
Week
#
Class Dates
Topics
Reading
1
8/26, 8/28
Introduction; Haskell and Functional
Programming Basics
[H] Chs. 1,
2
2
9/2, 9/4
Haskell Types, Currying, Polymorphism;
Functions; HW1 due
[H] Chs. 3,
4, 15
3
9/9, 9/11
List Comprehensions; Recursive Functions;
HW2 due
[H] Chs. 5,
6, 16
4
9/16, 9/18
Higher-Order Functions; Declaring Types
and Classes; Project Proposal due
[H] Chs. 7,
8
5
9/23, 9/25
IO; Monads; Monadic Parsing; HW3 due
[H] Chs. 10,
12, 13
6
9/30, 10/2
Syntax and Semantics; Midterm Review;
Midterm Exam
[H] Ch. 17
7
10/7, 10/9
PL Implementation; Syntactic Analysis; HW4
due; Project First Draft due
[J] Chs. 1, 2
8
(10/14*),
10/16
Java and Object-Oriented Programming
Basics
[J] Chs. 3, 4,
5
9
10/21, 10/23   Java and OOP Basics (Cont.); HW 5 due
[J] Chs. 6, 7,
8
10
10/28, 10/30   Java Virtual Machine (JVM); Project Second
Draft due
[J] Chs. 9,
10
11
11/4, 11/6
Java Generics; HW6 due
[J] Ch. 11
12
11/11, 11/13   Java Generics (Cont.)
[J] Ch. 11
13
11/18, 11/20   Java Concurrency; HW7 due
[J] Ch. 14
14
11/25,
(11/27**)
Concurrency (Cont.); Final Project Report
due
[J] Ch. 14
Week
#
Class Dates
Topics
Reading
15
12/2,
12/4***
Reflection; Final review; HW8 due
[J] Ch. 16
(*) TAMU Fall break: No class on 10/14
(**) Thanksgiving Holiday: No class on 11/27
(***) Our last class
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
Course Conduct and Academic Integrity : Each assignment will be done
individually. Note the following acceptable/unacceptable collaborations.
Acceptable collaboration includes: (1) discussing the assigned problems to
understand their meaning or (2) discussing possible approaches to assigned
problems. However, you must explicitly acknowledge any help received from
someone and reference every source you use, whether it be a person, a book, a
paper, a solution set, a web page or whatever.
Unacceptable collaboration includes: (1) copying (verbatim use) of someone else's
solution including AI, physical papers or computer files including program files,
either wholly or in part, however you have access to them, (2) submission of
solutions that are jointly authored, or authored either wholly or in part by other
individual including AI, or (3) providing physical papers or computer files including
program files of your or third-party solutions to other individuals or posting them
on any Internet media.
In general, you may discuss the strategy and approach to solutions with others, but
you must construct and write up all final answers in your own words by
yourself , and you must not share the final product in any way even after the
deadline has passed and even after the course is over.
Make sure that all of your files are properly secured since you may be responsible if
someone copies your files.
Should questions arise during the course of working on a problem, immediately
contact the instructor by email or by office hour visit.
On all assignments and examinations at Texas A&M University, the following Honor
Pledge shall be preprinted and signed by the student: " On my honor, as an Aggie, I
have neither given nor received unauthorized aid on this academic work. "
Submitting any work online via the student's TAMU account assumes that the
student signed the above statement electronically.
Attendance and Make-up Policy : Class attendance and course participation is
mandatory.
Medical reasons or other extenuating conditions beyond the control of the student
must be properly documented. Any make-up work must be completed before the
solutions are discussed or posted or the graded results become available to the
students, whichever occurs first. Discuss unusual circumstances  in advance  with the
instructor when possible. For more information, see  https://student-
rules.tamu.edu/rule07 .
Submission of Work Policy : All assignments must be submitted electronically
using the submission link set up by the instructor on the Canvas course page by the
due date and time specified for each assignment.  E-mail submissions will not be
accepted; they will be ignored without notice .
Regrading Policy : A student can request regrading of any graded material if the
student believes that the points assigned are inconsistent with the quality and
merits of the submitted work. To request regrading the student needs to follow the
guidelines below.
Regrading requests must be submitted to the instructor or using the regrade
request directly on Gradescope if the grading is done on Gradescope, within
one week after the graded results have been released to the student. After
this time limit no regrading requests will be honored.
Regrading requests must be in a written form using the regrade request on
Gradescope or via e-mail, accompanied by a reasonable amount of specific
justification and documentation. Make sure that you receive the confirmation
response from the instructor or the TA.
Course Copyright Statement : All materials used in this course are copyrighted.
These materials include but are not limited to the syllabi, exercises, quizzes, exams,
homework problems, solutions provided by the instructor, lecture notes and slides,
handouts, and course videos, etc. Because these materials are copyrighted, you do
not have the right to copy or distribute these materials, unless permission is
explicitly granted by the instructor.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Any use of AI is strictly prohibited in this course.