<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] ISEN 620 Syllabus
Section 700 (14035)
Survey of Optimization
Fall 2025 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:
Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: Asynchronous
Start Time: N/A
End Time: N/A
Start Date: 08/25/2025
End Date: 12/16/2025
Meeting Location:  ONLINE
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Sergiy Butenko
Email:  butenko@tamu.edu
Office:  ETB 4037
Phone:  979-458-2333
Office Hours
TR 10:00-11:00 AM or by appointment
[16.0pt] Course Description
This is an introductory course discussing theory and numerical methods for
deterministic linear and nonlinear optimization. Topics to be discussed include
linear programming, unconstrained and constrained nonlinear optimization,
including classical optimality conditions and numerical algorithms.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  MATH 304 or MATH 311.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
[11.0pt bold] Analyze  and  apply  linear and nonlinear programming theory and algorithms.
[11.0pt bold] Formulate  linear and nonlinear optimization models from real-world problems.
[11.0pt bold] Solve  small-scale optimization problems by hand and  utilize  optimization software to
solve large-scale problems.
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Course Handbook
URL for Resource:
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1KOF0V8vKpe1CiqwJAJ24
9Ubqrsqv-IXw/view?usp=sharing
This material Is: Recommended
Numerical Methods and Optimization
ISBN:  9781466577787
Authors:  Sergiy Butenko, Panos M. Pardalos
Publisher:  CRC Press
Publication Date:  2014-03-11
Notes:
The course manual with all the materials required for
successful completion of the course is provided. In
addition, it is recommended (but not required) to have
at least one reference text covering linear and nonlinear
optimization, such as Numerical Methods and
Optimization: An Introduction by Butenko and Pardalos,
ISBN: 978-1466577770 or Linear and Nonlinear
Optimization by Griva, Nash and Sofer, ISBN 978-0-
898716-61-0. Additional references: Introduction to
Mathematical Programming by Winston and
Venkataramanan, Fourth Edition, Duxbury; Linear
Programming and Network Flows by Bazarra, Jarvis and
Sherali, Second Edition, Wiley; An Introduction to
Optimization by Chong and Zak, Second Edition, Wiley.
[16.0pt] Additional Instructional Materials
This Material is: Required
Software and Computing Resources
Notes:
The course is computing-intensive. The required advanced optimization software
(AMPL) will be made available for download on Canvas (for Windows, Mac, and
Linux). You must ensure access to a computer that runs AMPL and Excel (or a
compatible spreadsheet application with Solver add-on).
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
All graded assignments will be open book/notes and must be completed via Canvas.
It is crucial that all the graded work is completed on your own, in accordance with
the Aggie Honor Code and the rules specified for each assignment. Any violations of
academic integrity rules will result in severe penalties, such as F ∗  for the course and
report to the honor council. A preliminary, automatically generated grade will
appear on Canvas immediately upon submission of your work, however, this grade
may not be final, as some assignments will require submitting additional materials
(such as a scan of your work and/or computer codes) for grading.
There will be the total of 40 graded assignments, described next.
•  4 Exams – 20% each. The exams will be open book/notes. Each exam will be
proctored to maintain scholastic integrity of the program. The instructor will provide
Zoom proctoring. If the exam dates/times specified in the detailed schedule below
do not work for you, you should notify the instructor no later than Friday preceding
the first exam, so that alternative arrangements can be made.
•  11 Homework Quizzes – 15%. The homework quizzes will be conducted via
Canvas, no proctor is required. The quizzes will be based on the practice problems,
solutions to which are provided in the course handbook (“Solution Manual”
chapter). The quizzes will be timed, but you will have the flexibility to take them any
time before the midnight of the quiz date specified in the course schedule.
• 25 Lecture Quizzes – 5%. Lecture quizzes are based on the videos of lectures and
should be taken according to the schedule at page 6.
The final letter grades will be calculated using the formula
weighted average = 0.05(lec quiz average)+0.15(hw quiz average)+0.8(exam
average)
and will be assigned as follows. A: [90,100], B: [80,90), C: [70,80), D: [60,70), F: [0,60).
Optional Final Exam will be offered as a chance to improve your final grade. The
exam will consist of the problems of the same types as the four exams given during
the semester. You will be able to choose which problems to solve. You will have two
hours to complete the exam, and the score for each problem you attempt will
replace the score you obtained for the problem of the same type in the original
exam (whenever the new score is higher).
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
While you are expected to follow the schedule above for best learning outcomes,
the due dates are not strictly enforced. Late submissions will not be penalized, as
long as they are completed before the exam covering the corresponding material. If
an exam is missed, you must contact the instructor as soon as possible with a
written authorized excuse. Make up exams will be given in accordance with
University Rules (see Rule 7 at  http://student-rules.tamu.edu ).
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Date
[11.0pt bold] Topic
[11.0pt bold] Deliverable
1
[11.0pt bold] Part 1: LP Basics
T 8/26
Lec. 1: Introduction
Lec 1 quiz
R 8/28
Lec. 2: Introduction to Optimization
Software
Lec 2 quiz
2
T 9/2
Lec. 3: LP Modeling
Lec 3 quiz
R 9/4
Lec. 4: LP Assumptions and Graphical
Method
Lec 4 quiz
3
T 9/9
[11.0pt bold] Homework quiz #1 due
Hw quiz 1
T 9/9
Lec. 5: Simplex Method: An Introduction   Lec 5 quiz
R 9/11
Lec. 6: Simplex Method: Termination &
Initialization
Lec 6 quiz
4
T 9/16
[11.0pt bold] Homework quiz #2 due
Hw quiz 2
T 9/16
Lec. 7: Analysis of the Simplex Method
Lec 7 quiz
R 9/18
[11.0pt bold] Homework quiz #3 due
Hw quiz 3
R 9/18
[11.0pt bold] Exam 1 (6:00–7:30 PM Zoom)
Exam 1
5
[11.0pt bold] Part 2: Duality and Sensitivity Analysis, IP Modeling
T 9/23
Lec. 8: LP Duality: Introduction
Lec 8 quiz
R 9/25
Lec. 9: Complementary Slackness
Lec 9 quiz
6
T 9/30
Lec. 10: Simplex Method in Matrix Form   Lec 10 quiz
R 10/2
[11.0pt bold] Homework quiz #4 due
Hw quiz 4
R 10/2
Lec. 11: Sensitivity Analysis
Lec 11 quiz
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Date
[11.0pt bold] Topic
[11.0pt bold] Deliverable
7
T 10/7
Lec. 12: Sensitivity Analysis
Lec 12 quiz
R 10/9
[11.0pt bold] Homework quiz #5 due
Hw quiz 5
R 10/9
Lec. 13: IP Modeling
Lec 13 quiz
No
Class
T 10/14
Fall Break
Deep breath
8
R 10/16
Lec. 14: IP Modeling
Lec 14 quiz
M 10/20
[11.0pt bold] Homework quiz #6 due
Hw quiz 6
T 10/21
[11.0pt bold] Exam 2 (6:00–7:30 PM Zoom)
Exam 2
9
R 10/23
Lec. 15: Nonlinear Opt.: Preliminaries
Lec 15 quiz
[11.0pt bold] Part 3: Unconstrained Optimization
T 10/28
Lec. 16: FONC for Unconstrained
Problems
Lec 16 quiz
10
R 10/30
Lec. 17: Second Order Optimality
Conditions
Lec 17 quiz
T 11/4
[11.0pt bold] Homework quiz #7 due
Hw quiz 7
T 11/4
Lec. 18: Root Finding & Line Search
Lec 18 quiz
11
R 11/6
Lec. 19: Steepest Descent Method
Lec 19 quiz
M 11/10
[11.0pt bold] Homework quiz #8 due
Hw quiz 8
T 11/11
[11.0pt bold] Exam 3 (6:00–7:30 PM Zoom)
Exam 3
12
R 11/13
Lec. 20: Newton’s Method
Lec 20 quiz
T 11/18
Lec. 21: Conjugate Direction Methods
Lec 21 quiz
13
R 11/20
[11.0pt bold] Homework quiz #9 due
Hw quiz 9
R 11/20
Lec. 22: FONC for Equality Constraints
Lec 22 quiz
[11.0pt bold] Part 4: Constrained Optimization
T 11/25
Lec. 23: Karush-Kuhn-Tucker
Conditions
Lec 23 quiz
No
Class
R 11/27
Thanksgiving Holiday
Celebrate!
14
T 12/2
[11.0pt bold] Homework quiz #10 due
Hw quiz 10
T 12/2
Lec. 24: Second Order Optimality
Conditions
Lec 24 quiz
W 12/3
[11.0pt bold] Homework quiz #11 due
Hw quiz 11
R 12/4
[11.0pt bold] Exam 4 (6:00–8:00 PM Zoom)
Exam 4
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Date
[11.0pt bold] Topic
[11.0pt bold] Deliverable
15
T 12/16
[11.0pt bold] Optional Final Exam (1:00–3:00 PM /
[11.0pt bold] 6:00–7:30 PM Zoom)
Final Exam
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
Course Format and Expectations
Section 700: The distance learning version of the course does not involve regular
class meetings, however, individual or group meetings with the instructor can be
arranged by appointment. You are expected to complete graded assignments
(lecture quizzes, homework quizzes, and exams) according to the schedule outlined
in “Course Topics and Schedule” section of this document (page 6). Each chapter of
the course handbook covers one lecture, with the material provided in the form of
text and pointers to pre-recorded videos of lectures available on YouTube and
Google Drive.
Expected Time Commitment
The course is structured in a way that requires timely attention to the material in
order to succeed. You are expected to allocate a similar amount of time to the
course as you would with a regular 3-credit on-campus course. More specifically,
you are expected to spend around 4.5 hours 1  per week attending the lectures or
reviewing the videos of lectures (the actual video files are shorter, taking into
account the time for activities, such as taking notes, during which you would pause
the video). In addition to the lecture time, you are expected to spend at least 9
hours per week on homework assignments, such as reading the course manual,
solving problems, and implementing and running optimization models. You should
be prepared to dedicate sufficient time in order to master the material at the level
that will benefit your professional career.
Communication
The following means of communication will be used during the course: Canvas,
GroupMe, email, Zoom. The course website will be maintained through Canvas. This
site will contain all the required course materials, including the lecture notes, slides,
software packages used, homework assignments, quizzes, exams, and grades.
Please check the web site daily – you are expected to be aware of any information
posted on it within 24 hours. You will need to use your TAMU NetId to log in. In
addition, the course-related discussions will be facilitated using a GroupMe chat.
You are strongly encouraged to join the course group (the link and the QR code are
provided above). Communication via GroupMe provides the quickest way of getting
your questions concerning the course answered.
All major announcements concerning the course will be communicated to the class
via email (in addition to announcements on Canvas and GroupMe). Zoom will be
used for proctoring the exams as well as office hours. You will be required to log in
Zoom with your Net ID and use video for exams. The exam sessions will be
recorded.
1 An academic hour is 50 minutes.