<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 633 Syllabus
Section 700 (57951)
Machine Learning
Fall 2025 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: Online/Distance
Meeting Days: Asynchronous
Meeting Location: Canvas
Start Date: 08/25/2025
End Date: 12/16/2025
Credit Hours:  3
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Bobak Mortazavi
Email:  bobakm+csce633-700@tamu.edu
Office:  308 PETR
Phone:  979.458.2642
Office Hours
See Office Hours button on home page
Preferred Contact Method
e-mail or canvas message
[16.0pt] Course Description
[10.0pt] Machine learning is a sub-field of Artificial Intelligence that gives computers the ability to learn
[10.0pt] and/or act without being explicitly programmed. Applications of machine learning have
[10.0pt] permeated many aspects of every-day life and can be found among others in self-driving
[10.0pt] cars, speech recognition, computer vision, and genomics. Topics include supervised and
[10.0pt] unsupervised learning (including parametric and non-parametric models, clustering,
[10.0pt] dimension reduction, deep learning), optimization procedures, and statistical inference.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  CSCE 420 or CSCE 625.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Describe  the fundamental issues and challenges in machine learning
surrounding data, modeling, model selection, model complexity, and more.
Gain  an understanding of the strengths and weaknesses of many machine
learning approaches.
Uncover  the mathematical relationships within and across machine learning
algorithms and the paradigms of supervised and unsupervised learning.
Design  and implement various machine learning and deep learning
algorithms in a range of real-world applications.
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
An Introduction to Statistical Learning
ISBN:  9783031387470
Authors:  Gareth James, Daniela Witten, Trevor Hastie,
Robert Tibshirani, Jonathan Taylor
Publisher:  Springer Nature
Publication Date:  2023-06-30
URL for Resource:  https://www.statlearning.com/
This material Is: Required
The Elements of Statistical Learning
ISBN:  9780387848587
Authors:  Trevor Hastie, Robert Tibshirani, Jerome
Friedman
Publisher:  Springer Science & Business Media
Publication Date:  2009-08-26
URL for Resource:
https://hastie.su.domains/ElemStatLearn/
This material Is: Recommended
Deep Learning
ISBN:  9783031454684
Authors:  Christopher M. Bishop, Hugh Bishop
Publisher:  Springer Nature
Publication Date:  2023-11-01
URL for Resource:  http://bishopbook.com/
This material Is: Recommended
Machine Learning Refined
ISBN:  9781107123526
Authors:  Jeremy Watt, Reza Borhani, Aggelos K.
Katsaggelos
Publisher:  Cambridge University Press
Publication Date:  2016-09-08
URL for Resource:
https://github.com/neonwatty/machine-learning-refined
This material Is: Optional
Introduction to Machine Learning, fourth edition
ISBN:  9780262358064
Authors:  Ethem Alpaydin
Publisher:  MIT Press
Publication Date:  2020-03-24
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[10.0pt] The cutoff for an `A' will be at most 90% of total score, 80% for a `B', 70% for a `C', and 60%
[10.0pt] for a `D'. Anything below 60% will an ‘F’.
[10.0pt] 1. Four homework assignments = 40%
[10.0pt] 2. One Final Project Assignment = 25%
[10.0pt] 3. Ten quizzes = 35%, the three lowest quiz grades will be dropped.
[10.0pt] All assignments, projects, and quizzes are individual assignments.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
No Late Assignments will be accepted. Late assignments are any deliverables after
the established deadline.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Course Modules, Associated Assignments, and Due Dates.
1. Introduction and Math
Review
--
Quiz 1 - Friday, Aug. 29
2. Linear Perceptron
--
Quiz 2 - Friday, Sep. 5
3. Linear Regression
--
Quiz 3 - Friday, Sep. 12
4. Logistic Regression,
Regularization, and
Feature Selection
Homework 1 - Friday,
Sep. 26
Quiz 4 - Friday, Oct. 3
5. Tree-based Methods
Homework 2 - Friday,
Oct. 10
Quiz 5 - Friday, Oct. 17
6. Support Vector
Machines
Homework 3 - Friday,
Oct. 24
Quiz 6 - Friday, Oct. 31
7. Neural Networks and
Deep Learning
Homework 4 - Friday,
Nov 7
Quiz 7 - Friday, Nov. 14
8. Dimension Reduction
--
Quiz 8 - Friday, Nov. 21
9. Unsupervised Learning --
Quiz 9 - Friday, Nov. 21
10. Advanced Topics
Project - Monday, Dec. 8   Quiz 10 - Friday, Dec. 5
All assignments are due at 11:59 pm CT (time in College Station, TX) on the date
listed unless otherwise specified. Always refer to the due date listed on Canvas.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
1.  Computer accounts: You should ask for TAMU HPRC access for implementing the
[10.0pt] assignments, if necessary
2.  Programming languages permitted: Python and must be executable on CS unix hosts
[10.0pt] or other public systems in the department lab
3.  You must have a camera that can be used by Respondus Lockdown Browser for
[10.0pt] online proctoring of quizzes.
4.  It is your responsibility to find a place to take quizzes in which the camera usage
[10.0pt] during quizzes does not result in privacy problems.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[12.0pt bold] The use of Generative AI tools is generally accepted in this class.
[12.0pt bold] Students are expected to document how the tools were used, including
[12.0pt bold] the prompts provided, and describe how they evaluated.  Engaging in the
[12.0pt] various aspects of creative pursuits (e.g., writing, coding, drawing) is critical to
[12.0pt] education in a broad sense. While AI technologies will continue shaping how
[12.0pt] we approach these creative tasks, the critical work of creativity relies on
[12.0pt] integrity, originality, and ethical conduct in regard to appropriate
[12.0pt] representation as an author or creator. Thus, submitting work with a
[12.0pt] significant percentage of AI-generated content, unless otherwise permitted,
[12.0pt] can be considered academic misconduct under Texas A&M University
[12.0pt] Student Rule 20.  Students must therefore cite the use of Generative AI
[12.0pt] tools and document what they have contributed to an assignment.