<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 620 Syllabus
Section 600 (62082)
Computational Geometry
Fall 2025 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MWF
Start Time: 1:50PM
End Time: 2:40PM
Start Date: 08/25/2025
End Date: 12/16/2025
Meeting Location:  HRBB 126
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Jianer Chen
Email:  j-chen3@tamu.edu
Office:  PETR 428
Phone:  (979) 845-4259
Office Hours
MWF 2:40 pm – 3:40 pm
Preferred Contact Method
email
[16.0pt] Course Description
Computational Geometry has become a very active research field whose
fundamental task is to identify concepts, properties, and techniques that lead to
efficient geometric algorithms and effective evaluation of their algorithmic
complexity. The filed has seen great success by the beauty of the problems studied
and the solutions obtained, and by its many applications in computer graphics, GIS,
robotics, and other application areas. This course will be focused on the study of
algorithms and complexity for geometric problems including geometric searching,
convex hull construction and related problems, proximity, and intersection. We will
solve these geometric problems by a variety of techniques developed in the field,
among them are geometric sweeping, divide and conquer, refinement, reduction,
geometric transformation, probabilistic methods, and parallel algorithms.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  CSCE 311 or approval of instructor. Cross Listing:
VIZA 670/CSCE 620.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
A student upon completing this course will:
• Master basic theories and techniques in the current research in computational
geometry.
• Use appropriate technologies to communicate and conduct research in related
research areas.
• Be able to apply theories and techniques studied in the course to solve real-world
problems in application areas where geometric structures, algorithms, and
complexity play important roles.
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Computational Geometry
ISBN:  9783540779742
Authors:  Mark de Berg, Otfried Cheong, Marc van
Kreveld, Mark Overmars
Publisher:  Springer Science & Business Media
Publication Date:  2008-03-07
[16.0pt] Additional Instructional Materials
This Material is: Optional
Computational Geometry: Methods and Applications
Authors:  Jianer Chen
Publisher:  Lecture Notes
Publication Date:  2025
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
• Grading Scale: A = 90-100%, B = 70-89%, C = 60-70%, F = 0-59%
• Homework assignment: 30%, Course project: 30%, Final exam 40%
• There are 3 homework assignments, used to test students’ understanding of the
course lectures.
• The course research project will provide students with opportunities to read
recent published papers in the area and do research on problems currently
interesting in the area
• The final exam will be comprehensive.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
The assignments are due on the designated due dates at the beginning of class. No
late submissions will be accepted. Discuss unusual circumstances in advance with
the instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
• Week 1: Computational geometry: preliminaries and data structures
• Week 2: Geometric sweeping: line segment intersections
• Week 3: Geometric sweeping: convex hulls (Graham and Javis algorithms)
• Week 4: Geometric sweeping: farthest pair and triangulation
• Week 5: Divide and conquer: convex hulls (mergehull and quickhull)
• Week 6: Voronoi diagram: definition and structures, homework #1 due
• Week 7: Divide and conquer: Voronoi diagram construction
• Week 8: Prune and search: convex hulls (Kirkpatrick-Seidel’s algorithm)
• Week 9: Prune and search: point location (slab method)
• Week 10: Divide and reduce: point location (Kirkpatrick algorithm), homework #2
due
• Week 11: Geometric algorithms via linear-time reductions
• Week 12: Computational lower bounds: Ben-Or’s Theorem
• Week 13: Computational lower bounds via linear-time reductions
• Week 14: NP-hard geometric problems: ETSP, homework #3 due
• Week 15: NP-hard geometric problems: Line-Cover, course project due.
• Week 16: Course summary, and student presentations
• December 15, 3:30 pm – 5:30 pm: Final exam
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
• The course webpage can be accessed by the following link:
https://people.engr.tamu.edu/j-chen3/courses/620/2025/courseweb.html , or
You can go to the instructor’s home page then click the course link. The course
webpage publishes course syllabus, lecture notes, homework assignments, exams,
and other course handouts.
• This course is using Canvas learning management system. Students submit their
homework and projects via Canvas.