<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 313 Syllabus
Section 599 (63138)
Introduction to Computer Systems
Fall 2025 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days:
Start Time: N/A
End Time: N/A
Start Date: 08/25/2025
End Date: 12/16/2025
Meeting Location:  ONLINE
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 08:25AM
End Time: 09:15AM
Start Date: 08/25/2025
End Date: 12/16/2025
Meeting Location:  ZACH 590
Credit Hours:  4
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Shawn Lupoli
Email:  proflupoli@cse.tamu.edu
Office:  N/A
Phone:  410-575-5423
Office Hours
By Appointment
Preferred Contact Method
email
[16.0pt] Course Description
[10.5pt] Credits 4. 3 Lecture Hours. 2 Lab Hours.  Introduction to system support for
[10.5pt] application programs, both on single node and over network including OS
[10.5pt] application interface, inter-process communication, introduction to system and
[10.5pt] network programming, and simple computer security concepts; hands-on lab
[10.5pt] assignments.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  CSCE 221 with a grade of C or better; grade of C or
better in CSCE 312 or concurrent enrollment in CSCE 350/ECEN 350 or
ECEN 350/CSCE 350.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Understand  what  system software is involved for an application program to run,
both on a single node and over a network, and how this system software is to be
used.
Perform system-level programming.
Use system components, such as memory, file systems, process control, inter-process
communication, and networking.
Understand problems and pitfalls encountered in the design and implementation of
multithreaded and networked applications and systems.
Use services provided by the underlying operating system by programming
directly at the operating system interface level. - Understand the following
aspects of a computer system:
What is an operating system?
What are the components of an operating system?
What are system calls and their purpose?
Execution of a program; function calls; interrupts.
The OS application interface, file system, and process control.
Inter-process communication
Concurrency, Threads, Process/Thread Synchronization
Network Socket Programming
Parallel and Distributed Computing
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Operating Systems Three Easy Pieces
ISBN:  9791156007395
Authors:  Remzi H.Arpaci-Dusseau
Publication Date:  2020-03-01
URL for Resource:
https://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/OSTEP/
This material Is: Recommended
Beej's Guide to Interprocess Communication
URL for Resource:
https://beej.us/guide/bgipc/html/split/
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
This course assumes that all work submitted by students will be generated by the students
themselves. Students should not have another person/entity do the writing of any
substantive portion of an assignment for them, which includes hiring a person or a company
to write assignments and using artificial intelligence tools like ChatGPT.
[11.0pt bold] Labs:
This portion of the class is face-to-face. Not every lab will have new content. Your
attendance is required to receive full credit for those that do. For those labs that do not have
content, they will be used for office hours. The TA will still be present at the same location.
[11.0pt bold] Exams:
There are two exams in this course. There are setup requirements explained  here  to stop
cheating. In general, please make sure you have the camera angle facing the monitor, your
keyboard and you in one frame. We may also be using GradeScope to collect your exam
[11.0pt bold] work. You will need to create a  free  account (if there is not one already created for you) and
add yourself to the class already established. You are required to create this account before
[11.0pt bold] the start of the first exam.  If neither of these requirements are not followed, you will
[11.0pt bold] receive a 0 for that exam.  Any exams missed with a University sanctioned excuse must be
made up within a week and is up to the student to schedule with the instructor.
[11.0pt bold] Submission of Work Policy :
[11.0pt bold] All assignments must be submitted  electronically  (not hard copies) using the
Canvas/Gradescope/GitHub system by the due date and time specified in the assignment.
Accepting electronic submission of assignments establishes the date and time of submission
[11.0pt bold] thus avoiding future contests.  E-mail submissions will not be accepted  (they will be ignored
[11.0pt bold] without notice). You will need to create a  free  GradeScope and GitHub account (if there is
not one already created for you) and add yourself to the class already established.
[11.0pt bold] Regrading Policy :
A student can request regrading of any graded material, if the student believes that the
points assigned are inconsistent with the quality and merits of the submitted work. To
request regrading the student needs to follow the guidelines below:
[11.0pt bold] 1. Regrading requests must be submitted to the instructor within  one week  after the
graded item has been returned (in hardcopy or electronically via eCampus) to the
student. After this time limit no re-grading requests will be honored.
2. Regrading requests must be in written form, accompanied by a reasonable amount of
specific justification and documentation.
[11.0pt bold] Canvas only  shows  the various grades for our class.  It does not always correctly calculate
[11.0pt bold] our final grades.  Your instructor will manually calculate the final grades using the syllabus
Grading Scale below. Ignore the grading “Tools” that the course management system
provides.
Standard Letter Grading Scale:
A >= 90% > B >= 80% > C >= 70% > D >= 60% > F
[10.5pt bold] Graded Assignment Percetage Breakdown
points
#
Total %
Participation
3
8 (best of 5)
15
Labs
7.5
6
40
Reading Assignment
3
6 (best of 5)
15
Midterm
15
1
15
Final
15
1
15
[11.0pt bold] Total:
[11.0pt bold] 100
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[11.0pt bold] Late submission or wrong submission  beyond the deadline will receive a 0, unless a
University sanctioned excuse is provided ahead of time. In general, late submission will NOT
[11.0pt bold] be accepted. “I forgot” or “my file was corrupted”  is not  an excuse. For this particular class,
no late work is accepted unless with a valid absence described above.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Class Schedule
Week
Topic
1
Unix System Overview
2
Processes
3
Process Attributes
4
Pipes and FIFO
5
Unix File IO
6
File System
7
Signals
8
Midterm Exam
9
Concurrency and Threads
10
Thread Synchronization - Part 1
11
Thread Synchronization - Part 2
12
Intro. to Networking
13
Routers, Switches, Packets and Frames
Network Programming
14
Intro. to Computer/Network Security
15
Packet Sniffing and Spoofing
Public Key Cryptography
16
Final Exam
[13.0pt] Important Dates:
https://aggie.tamu.edu/registration-and-records/classes/final-examination-schedules
Midterm (2 hour) - 10/2 - 9 p.m. – 11:00 p.m. - use normal Office Hours Zoom link
Final Exam (2 hours) - 12/15 - 6 p.m. - 8 p.m. - use normal Office Hours Zoom link
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[13.0pt] Lecture Schedule
For these particular sections, all lectures are online/asynchronous, but are based on a
weekly schedule. But all labs (covered below) are in person.
[13.0pt] Lab Schedule
All sections, no matter if the lecture is online or not, have FACE-TO-FACE labs each week.
Lab Schedule
Section
Time/Day
Location
CSCE-313-592
T/R @ 8:25 - 9:15
Zach 582
CSCE-313-593
T/R @ 9:35 - 10:25
Zach 582
CSCE-313-594
T/R @ 11:35 - 12:25
Zach 582
CSCE-313-595
T/R @ 12:45 - 1:35
Zach 582
CSCE-313-596
T/R @ 3:55 - 4:45
Zach 584
CSCE-313-597
T/R @ 2:35 - 3:25
Zach 584
CSCE-313-598
T/R @ 9:35 - 10:25
Zach 590
CSCE-313-599
T/R @ 8:25 - 9:15
Zach 590
*Please confirm with Howdy
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
Class attendance is essential for student and group success; therefore students are required
to promptly and regularly attend all their lab sessions (since this is an online class). A record
of attendance will be maintained from the first day of classes and/or the first day the
students’ name appears on the roster through the final examinations and labs.
Absences may only be excused by the Texas A&M University Student Rules available
at  http://student-rules.tamu.edu/rule07 . Prior arrangements with the instructor must be
made when feasible and official verification of circumstances necessitating the absence will
be required.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate a period
of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up work should be
agreed upon by the student and instructor” ( Student Rule 7, Section 7.4.1 ).
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[12.0pt] According to the Texas A&M University Definitions of Academic
[12.0pt] Misconduct, plagiarism is the appropriation of another person's ideas,
[12.0pt] processes, results or words without giving appropriate credit
[12.0pt] (
[12.0pt] ). You should credit your use of anyone else's
[12.0pt] words, graphic images, or ideas using standard citation styles. Artificial
[12.0pt] Intelligence (AI) text generators and natural language processing tools
[12.0pt] (colloquially, chatbots - such as ChatGPT), audio, computer code, video,
[12.0pt] and image generators should not be used for any work for this class
[12.0pt] without explicit permission of the instructor and appropriate attribution.
[12.0pt] This includes, but is not limited to,
[12.0pt] i. Creating or revising drafts
[12.0pt] ii. Editing your work
[12.0pt] iii. Reviewing a peer's work
[12.0pt] This excludes pre-existing software additions such as spelling and
[12.0pt] grammar checkers, which are acceptable.
[12.0pt] aggiehonor.tamu.edu