<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] ISEN 340 Syllabus
Section 502 (39510)
Operations Research II
Fall 2025 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 09:35AM
End Time: 10:50AM
Start Date: 08/25/2025
End Date: 12/16/2025
Meeting Location:  ZACH 266
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Neil Diaz Martinez
Email:  nodiaz@tamu.edu
Office:  ETB 4036
Phone:  TBD
Office Hours
On-premise: Tuesdays and Thursdays from 1:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m.
Online: By Appointment
https://tamu.zoom.us/j/3248769665
Preferred Contact Method
Canvas Messages
[16.0pt] Course Description
Probabilistic methods for industrial and service systems; stochastic processes used
in industrial engineering, including Poisson processes and discrete and continuous-
time Markov chains; applications to production operations, inventory control,
revenue management, quality control, reliability, digital simulation, and finance.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in MATH 304 or MATH 323;
grade of C or better in ISEN 310, STAT 212, or ECEN 303; junior or senior
classification.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Industrial and systems engineers are often faced with decision-making under
uncertainty, which requires the ability to characterize uncertainty. This course
introduces students to models and methods based on stochastic processes, with a
focus on engineering applications. Upon completion of this course, the learner will
be able to:
Be able to model and analyze uncertainty in real-world engineering problems;
be able to formulate and solve probabilistic models that capture the essential
elements of an engineering problem;
be able to interpret the model solution to assist in engineering decision-
making;
be able to evaluate systems in a wide variety of applications using analytical
and simulation-based methods.
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Course notes and handouts will be provided.
[16.0pt] Additional Instructional Materials
This Material is: Optional
Modeling Random Processes for Engineers and
Managers
ISBN:  9780470322550
Authors:  James J. Solberg
Publisher:  John Wiley & Sons
Publication Date:  2008-12-22
This Material is: Optional
Introduction to Probability Models
ISBN:  9780124081215
Authors:  Sheldon M. Ross
Publisher:  Academic Press
Publication Date:  2014-01-08
This Material is: Optional
Introduction to Modeling and Analysis of Stochastic
Systems
ISBN:  9781441917720
Authors:  V. G. Kulkarni
Publisher:  Springer
Publication Date:  2010-11-03
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
10% Quizzes*
15% Assignments*
25% Exam 1
25% Exam 2
25% Exam 3
* Can miss or drop 2; no make ups.
[90%,100%] gets an A, [80%,90%) gets a B, [70%,80%) gets a C, [60%, 70%) gets a D,
and less than 60% gets an F.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late work will not be accepted.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Week(s)
Topic
Evaluation Date
1, 2
DTMC Modeling
Sep. 4
3
DTMC Transient Analysis
Sep. 11
4
DTMC Steady State
Sep. 18
5
Exam 1
Sep. 25
6
Exponential Distr. / Poisson
Process
Oct. 2
7
CTMC Modeling
Oct. 9
8
CTMC Transient Analysis
Oct. 23
9
CTMC Steady State
Oct. 30
10
Exam 2
Nov. 6
11
Renewal Process
Nov. 13
12
Queueing Basics /
Nov. 20
13
Queueing Single Server
Dec. 2.
14, 15
Queueing Networks
Exam 3 (Final)
TBD
DTMC: Discrete-Time Markov Chain
CTMC:  Continuous-Time Markov Chain
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
Scientific Software
MATLAB, R, Excel, or Python might also be used for classwork and homework.
Course Format
Traditional lectures with in-class exercises, quizzes, and evaluations.
Read the provided handouts, including examples, and try to solve the
exercises in the handouts.
Come to class and make an effort to understand each topic.
Review class exercises; optionally, complement your preparation by working
with the suggested textbooks.
Use the TA's and the instructor's office hours.
Turn in quizzes; if anything is unclear, make a note of each. Partial credit will
be given.
To contest a grade, please submit a formal written objection within
three days of the graded evaluation's due date.
If necessary, tests and exams might be regraded to ensure the integrity
and accuracy of the questions. Some students' grades may decrease
after the regrading.
Communications
To maintain course integrity, all communications must be conducted through
Canvas (via a message). The instructor will not respond to course-related questions
via email or chat.
How to Succeed in the Course?
Read and abide by the  Aggie Code of Honor
Be respectful of your peers and instructor.
Plan to spend 9 hours on the course each week, including 3 hours of class
attendance.
Do not put things off to the last minute; this course needs extreme diligence.
Ask questions during the course meetings.
Solve the exercise problems on your own before looking at the solution.
If something is not clear, ask questions in class or during office hours (ask for
help as early as possible).
Attempt all the exercise problems before coming to class.
Prepare extremely well for quizzes and exams.
This is a math-based class, so the procedure to obtain an answer is as valid as
the answer itself.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
Attendance is mandatory.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
AI should be used if the instructor indicates that it should be used.