<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 489 Syllabus
Section 501 (62744)
Special Topics in...
Fall 2025 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MWF
Start Time: 10:20AM
End Time: 11:10AM
Start Date: 08/25/2025
End Date: 12/16/2025
Meeting Location:  EABB 106
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Ruihong Huang
Email:  huangrh@tamu.edu
Office:  PETR 328
Phone:  979-862-2908
Office Hours
Tu & Th, 11 am - 12 pm
Preferred Contact Method
by email
Biography
https://people.engr.tamu.edu/huangrh/index.html
[16.0pt] Course Description
NLP fundamentals including word semantics, language models, discourse and
pragmatics. In addition, this course will also introduce various applications of NLP,
including information extraction, sentiment analysis, question and answering, text
summarization and machine translation etc. The students will digest and practice
their NLP knowledge and skills by working on programming assignments and a final
project.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 331 or approval of
instructor. Junior or senior standing.
Restrictions:  none.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
• Define and explain the key concepts and models relevant to natural language
processing.
• Implement important algorithms, recognize and fix common problems in practice.
• Design and develop his/her own text processing applications.
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Speech and Language Processing
Authors:  Dan Jurafsky and James H. Martin
Publication Date:  January 12, 2025
Edition:  3rd ed. draft
URL for Resource:  https://web.stanford.edu/~jurafsky/slp3/
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Programming Assignments – Students are expected to submit three programming
homework assignments (assignments will be due on Sunday of the given week).
Reading Assignment – Students are expected to submit a report on a recent
research paper in Natural Language Processing. The expectations for this report will
be explained in class.
In-Class Mid-term Exams – Students’ understanding of the material will be assessed
using three proctored mid-term exams.
Class Participation – Class participation will be expected. For in-person and remote
students, attendance will be taken for each class, either in-person or online. For
asynchronous online students, the timely access to course material will be
assessed. In addition, participation in online discussions and completion of
assignments, exams and online course evaluations will be counted as well.
Class Project – Students are expected to submit a final project. Students are
expected to create a working text processing system and to give a presentation to
the class.
Grading Policy
• Programming Assignments: 30%
• Reading Assignment: 10%
• Three Mid-term Exam: 30%
• Class Project: 25%
• Participation: 5%
The grading scale will be: A = 90-100; B = 80-89; C = 70-79; D = 60-69; F = <60
(scores rounded to the closest integer)
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
For the programming/written homework assignments, students have a total of 5
late days that they can use during the semester. However, a single assignment can
be submitted up to 2 days late only. For the purposes of the class, a late day is an
indivisible 24-hour unit. Once the student exhausts their 5 late days, no more late
submissions will be accepted.
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is
exempted from the late work policy (Student Rule 7). Please refer to Student Rule
7 for information
about excused absences.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Week Topic                                                                                Deliverables
1 Overview and Text Preprocessing
2 Introduction to Text Classification, Naive Bayes                   Assignment 1 due
3 Sentiment Analysis, Discriminate Models
4 Introduction to Word Semantics, Sparse Word Vectors      mid-term exam1
5 Dense Word Vectors                                                            Assignment 2 due
6 N-gram Language Models
7 Neural Language Models                                                   mid-term exam 2
8 Transformers                                                                      Proposal of Class Project
due
9 Large Language Models                                                    Assignment 3 due
10 Model Alignment                                                              mid-term exam 3
11 Applications                                                                     Reading Assignment due
12 Applications
13 Other Trending Topics                                                    Class Project due
14 Project Presentations
15 Project Presentations
[14.0pt bold] https://piazza.com/tamu/fall2025/csce489
[16.0pt] AI Statement
All the assignments are expected to be completed by yourself, AI generated content
detection tools will be applied to detect submissions violating this requirement.