<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 676 Syllabus
Section 600 (62085)
Data Mining and Analysis
Fall 2025 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 09:35AM
End Time: 10:50AM
Start Date: 08/25/2025
End Date: 12/16/2025
Meeting Location:  HRBB 113
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
James Caverlee
Email:  caverlee@tamu.edu
Office:  Peterson 338
Phone:  979-458-3870
Office Hours
TBD
[16.0pt] Course Description
[10.5pt] Broad overview of data mining, integrating related concepts from machine learning
[10.5pt] and statistics; exploratory data analysis, pattern mining, clustering and
[10.5pt] classification; applications to scientific and online data.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
I expect all students to have had some previous exposure to basic probability,
statistics, algorithms, and data structures. You should be able to design and
develop large programs and learn new software libraries on your own.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Define and explain the key concepts and models relevant to data mining and
analysis, including data
preparation, normalization, dimensionality reduction, text mining, and so on.
Design, implement, and evaluate data mining algorithms like associate rules,
clustering, anomaly detection, and do so on modern scalable cloud
computing platforms (e.g., Spark).
Identify the salient features and apply recent research results in data mining,
including topics such as graph mining, and large-scale mining.
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Mining of Massive Data Sets
ISBN:  9781108476348
Authors:  Jure Leskovec, Anand Rajaraman, Jeffrey David
Ullman
Publisher:  Cambridge University Press
Publication Date:  2020-01-09
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
10% Engagement
30% Homework
20% Paper Reports
15% Midterm Exam
25% Final Exam
A >= 90, B >= 80 and < 90, C >= 70 and < 80, D >= 60 and < 70, F < 60
Engagement:  Engagement in the class is both important to your success in the
course. As a proxy for
your engagement, we will assess your participation in the classroom, your activity in
the course
discussion forum, and your completion of weekly (low-stress) quizzes.
Homework:  We will have several homework assignments, all in Python. We make
no expectations that
you have been exposed to Python before, but we do expect you to come up to
speed rapidly.
All homework assignments must be submitted by 11:59pm Central time on the due
date. For the
homework assignments, you may talk to any other class member or work in groups
to discuss the
problems in a general way. However, your actual detailed solution must be yours
alone. If you do talk toother students, you must write on your assignment who it is
that you discussed the problems with.  Your
submitted work must be written solely by you and not contain work directly
copied from others.
Homework Collaboration Clarification:  To clarify, your homework is yours alone and
you are expected to
complete each homework independently. Your solution should be written by you
without the direct aid or
help of anyone else. However, we believe that collaboration and team work are
important for facilitating
learning, so we encourage you to discuss problems and general problem
approaches (but not actual
solutions) with your classmates. If you do have a chat with another student about a
homework problem,
you must inform us by writing a note on your homework submission (e.g., Bob
pointed me to the relevant
section for problem 3). The basic rule is that no student should explicitly share a
solution with another
student (and thereby circumvent the basic learning process), but it is okay to share
general approaches,
directions, and so on. If you feel like you have an issue that needs clarification, feel
free to contact either
me or the TA.
Homework Plagiarism Policy:  We will check homework submissions for plagiarism.
Students found to
have engaged in plagiarism will be punished severely, typically earning an automatic
F in the course and
being reported to the Aggie Honor System.
Homework Late Days:  For the homework assignments, you have  a total of 5 late
days  that you can use
during the semester. For the purposes of the class, a late day is an indivisible 24-
hour unit. Once you
exhaust your 5 late days, we will not accept any late submissions.
Paper Reports:  Over the semester, you will write four paper reports on recent data
mining publications.
Each report will be fairly brief (less than 4 pages).
Midterm Exam:  We will have a midterm on Thursday, March 10. You may bring one
8.5x11inch
cheatsheet with any notes you like, front and back.
Final Exam:  We will have a comprehensive final exam on Thursday, May 5 from
12:30pm to 2:30pm.
You may bring one 8.5x11inch cheatsheet with any notes you like, front and back.
Re-grade Policy
If you feel that we have made an error in grading, you may resubmit the assignment
for a regrade  within
seven days  of receiving your grade. You must include a  brief written
statement  describing what portion
has been graded in error. Note that we reserve the right to examine the entire
assignment, so there is a
chance we may find errors in your assignment that we missed before.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Week 1 :: Course introduction + Data Preparation
Week 2 :: Frequent Itemset MiningWeek 3 :: Graph Mining and Link Analysis
Week 4 :: MapReduce + Spark
Week 5 :: Locality-Sensitive Hashing
Week 6 :: Dimensionality Reduction
Week 7 :: Data Visualization
Week 8 :: Midterm
Week 9 :: Stream Mining
Week 10 :: Recommenders
Week 11 :: Recommenders 2
Week 12 :: Fairness and Bias
Week 13 :: Graph Mining 2
Week 14 :: Ethics of Data Mining