<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 491 Syllabus
Section 211 (33674)
Research
Fall 2025 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Location:  422 Peterson
Meeting Times:   TBD - weekly
The credit hours listed below come from Howdy, which is 0-4 hours. Typically,
students take this for 3 credit hours per semester. Please verify you are registered
for the correct number of hours.
Credit Hours:  0 TO 4
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Robert Lightfoot
Email:  Use Canvas inbox for course issues. Others,
rob.light@tamu.edu
Office:  422 Peterson
Phone:  979 845-2611
Office Hours
Posted in Canvas
Preferred Contact Method
Canvas inbox, WhatsApp
Webpage:
https://engineering.tamu.edu/cse/profiles/Lightfoot-
Robert.html
Biography
[13.0pt] A. Robert Lightfoot earned his Ph.D. in
[13.0pt] Multidisciplinary Engineering and B.S. in
[13.0pt] Computer Science from Texas A&M
[13.0pt] University, and an M.S. in Computer
[13.0pt] Science from Southern Methodist
[13.0pt] University.
[13.0pt] B. His career includes work at Ericsson and
[13.0pt] DSC (Motorola) and independent
[13.0pt] development of smart sorting systems.
[13.0pt] C. His teaching and research focus on
[13.0pt] software engineering and computer
[13.0pt] science education.
Socials
[13.0pt] Study abroad and Fish camp are amazing!
[16.0pt] Course Description
[10.5pt] Research conducted under the direction of a faculty member in computer science.
[10.5pt] May be taken four times for credit.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Junior or senior classification and approval of
instructor.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Read and understand research in their field.
Propose and write a research paper in their field.
Present their work at a regional conference.
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Optional
No Textbook needed.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[13.0pt] CSCE Undergraduate Research – Grading Policy
[13.0pt] Letter
[13.0pt] Grade   Criteria
[13.0pt] A
[13.0pt] Successfully completes  all course requirements  on
[13.0pt] time and to a high standard. Demonstrates consistent
[13.0pt] engagement, meets research milestones, and
[13.0pt] contributes meaningfully to the project.
[13.0pt] B
[13.0pt] Completes  90% or more  of assignments and milestones,
[13.0pt] but may have minor delays or reduced depth in some
[13.0pt] tasks. Engagement and contribution remain strong.
[13.0pt] C
[13.0pt] Completes  75–89%  of assignments/milestones. May
[13.0pt] have multiple late or incomplete submissions, with
[13.0pt] noticeable gaps in engagement or research contribution.
[16.0pt] CSCE Undergraduate Research – Grading Policy
[13.0pt] Letter
[13.0pt] Grade   Criteria
[13.0pt] D
[13.0pt] Completes  60–74%  of assignments/milestones.
[13.0pt] Frequently late or incomplete work, limited engagement
[13.0pt] with the research project, and/or missed major
[13.0pt] deliverables.
[13.0pt] F
[13.0pt] Completes  less than 60%  of assignments/milestones or
[13.0pt] fails to meet essential course requirements. Lack of
[13.0pt] engagement and minimal contribution to research.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[13.0pt] There are hard deadlines for the conferences and the URS program at
[13.0pt] TAMU. We will abide by those dates.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[13.0pt] The schedule will be discussed in our weekly meetings.
[13.0pt] Define research goals
[13.0pt] Review current work
[13.0pt] Write and submit an abstract
[13.0pt] Write and submit a paper
[13.0pt] Create presentation
[13.0pt] Present work
[13.0pt] Complete URS requirements
[13.0pt] ASEE-GSW  Abstracts are usually due in November, the paper is usually
[13.0pt] due in late December, and the conference is usually the first 2-3 days
[13.0pt] of spring break.
[13.0pt] URS  We will follow the due dates posted by URS.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[16.0pt] AI Statement
We will use AI in various capacities in this course. Full disclosure is required.