<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] ISEN 660 Syllabus
Section 700 (63232)
Risk Engineering
Fall 2025 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days:
Start Time: N/A
End Time: N/A
Start Date: 08/25/2025
End Date: 12/16/2025
Meeting Location:  ONLINE
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Neil Diaz Martinez
Email:  nodiaz@tamu.edu
Office:  ETB 4036
Phone:  TBD
Office Hours
[13.0pt] Face-to-face: Tuesdays and Thursdays from 1:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m.
[13.0pt] Online: By Appointment
Preferred Contact Method
Canvas Messages
[16.0pt] Course Description
Fundamental concepts, techniques, and applications of risk assessment and risk
management for engineering systems; current industry practices for risk
assessment of industrial facilities using qualitative and quantitative approaches are
demonstrated through exercises and case studies from diverse engineering fields.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Graduate classification. Cross Listing: CHEN 660 and
SENG 660.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Comprehend and articulate the fundamental goals and methodologies of the
Systems Engineering discipline.
Operate proficiently with international standards governing Systems
Engineering and Risk Management.
Conduct a comprehensive risk analysis, including the identification and
assessment of potential hazards, to develop effective mitigation strategies.
Develop and interpret probabilistic risk assessments for intricate engineering
systems.
Evaluate and model the reliability of individual engineering components and
complex, interconnected systems.
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Reliability and Risk Analysis
ISBN:  9781000864137
Authors:  Mohammad Modarres, Katrina Groth
Publisher:  CRC Press
Publication Date:  2023-04-26
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Quizzes, homework, assignments (20%)
Unit 1 Evaluation: Systems Engineering (20%)
Unit 2 Evaluation: Risk Management (20%)
Unit 3 Evaluation: Probabilistic Risk Assessment - PRA (10%)
Unit 4 Evaluation: Reliability (30%)
[90%,100%] gets an A, [80%,90%) gets a B, [70%,80%) gets a C, [60%, 70%) gets a D,
and less than 60% gets an F.
Major evaluations will be administered at the end of each module. Minor tests and
homework will be given throughout the module. Minor assessment will account for
no more than 33% of the module's weight.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
No late work will be accepted.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Week
Module
Topic
Readings
1
Systems
Engineering
Foundations
KOSS Ch. 1-4,
INCO Ch. 1
2
Processes
INCO Ch. 2
3
MBSE & SySML /
Evaluation
HELL Ch. 1-6
4
Risk Management
Guidelines
ISO 31000:2018
5
Assessment Techniques   IEC 31010:2019
6
Evaluation
7
Probabilistic Risk
Assessment
Fundamentals
MO23 Ch. 9, MO06
Ch. 1-2
8
Use Case
MO23 Ch. 9
9
Reliability
Engineering
Elements of Component
Reliability
MO23 Ch. 1-3
10
11
System Reliability
Analysis
MO23 Ch. 6
12
13
Reliability of Repairable
Systems
MO23 Ch. 7
14
15
Additional Topics /
Evaluation
MO23 Ch. 8
[MO23] Modarres, M. and Groth, K. (2023). Reliability and risk analysis, 2nd ed. CRC
Press.
[MO06] Modarres, (2006). Risk Analysis in Engineering: Techniques, Tools, and
Trends. CRC Press.
[KOSS] Kossiakoff, A., Biemer, S. M., Seymour, S. J., & Flanigan, D. A. (2020). Systems
Engineering Principles and Practice (3rd ed.). Wiley.
[INCO] Walden, D. D., Roedler, G. J., & Forsberg, K. (2023, June). INCOSE Systems
Engineering Handbook Version 5. Wiley Publishing.
[HELL] Helle, P.: MBSE with SysML and Eclipse Papyrus, MBSE4U Publishing (2024).
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
Scientific Software
MATLAB, R, Excel, or Python might also be used for classwork and homework.
Course Format
Online lectures with exercises, quizzes, and evaluations.
Read the assigned material, including examples, and try to solve the exercises
in the handouts.
Watch the video lectures.
Review class exercises; optionally, complement your preparation by working
with the suggested textbooks.
Use the instructor's office hours.
Turn in quizzes; if anything is unclear, make a note of each. Partial credit will be
given when possible.
To contest a grade, please submit a formal written objection within three
days of the graded evaluation's due date.
If necessary, tests and exams might be regraded to ensure the integrity
and accuracy of the questions. Some students' grades may decrease
after the regrading.
Communications
To maintain course integrity, all communications must be conducted through Canvas
(via a message). The instructor will not respond to course-related questions via email
or chat.
How to Succeed in the Course?
Read and abide by the  Aggie Code of Honor
Be respectful of your peers and instructor.
Plan to spend 12 hours on the course each week, including time needed to
watch the video lectures.
Do not put things off to the last minute; this course needs extreme diligence.
Ask questions using Canvas.
Solve the exercise problems on your own before looking at the solution (when
applicable).
If something is not clear, ask questions during office hours (ask for help as early
as possible).
Attempt all the exercise problems before coming to class.
Prepare extremely well for quizzes and exams.
For the math-based units or modules, the procedure to obtain an answer is as
valid as the answer itself.