<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 442 Syllabus
Section 500 (58237)
Scientific Programming
Fall 2025 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times: Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 5:30PM
End Time: 6:45PM
Start Date: 08/25/2025
End Date: 12/16/2025
Meeting Location:  HRBB 124
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Wenping Wang
Email:  wenping@tamu.edu
Office:  416, Peterson Hall
Phone:  9797773869
Office Hours
6:50-7:50pm, Tuesday and Thursday, HRBB 124
Preferred Contact Method
Face to Face or Zoom
Webpage:  https://engineering.tamu.edu/cse/profiles/Wang-Wenping.html
Anshul Mendiratta
Email:  anshulmendiratta@tamu.edu
Office:  417, Peterson Hall
Phone:  979-862-1165
Office Hours
TBD
Preferred Contact Method
TBD
[16.0pt] Course Description
CSCE 442 Scientific Programming
Credits 3. 3 Lecture Hours.
Computational methods fundamental to scientific and engineering applications of computers.
Discussions of computer arithmetic; numerical errors; solving linear systems of equations;
linear least squares regression; solving nonlinear equations; optimization methods and
applications to machine learning; polynomial and spline interpolation; numerical methods
differentiation and integration, quadrature methods; Monte Carlo methods (optional); solving
differential equations (optional).
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  CSCE 221 with a grade of C or better; MATH 304 or
MATH 308 or concurrent enrollment.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
N/A
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
1. Apply computational arithmetic in real-world scenarios. Understand floating point
numbers, rounding errors, relative and absolute errors, cancellation, and numerical instability.
2. Solve linear and non-linear equation systems, using Gaussian elimination, LU, QR.
Understand pivoting, norms, condition numbers, and apply iterative methods, and the
bisection method, Newton’s method, the secant method.
3. Create and apply optimization techniques, based on the Golden section search, the
steepest descent method, and the Newton method, to solving practical problems.
4. Perform data interpolation for approximation through the application of Lagrange
interpolation, Newton interpolation, Hermite interpolation, and piecewise polynomial
interpolation.
5. Apply numerical integrate and differentiate numerical using forward difference
approximation, Richardson extrapolation, the composite rule, Newton-Cotes quadrature, and
Gaussian quadrature.
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Scientific Computing
ISBN:  ISBN-13: 978-1611975574, ISBN-10: 1611975573
Authors:  Michael Heath
Publisher:  McGraw-Hill
Publication Date:  2001
Edition:  2nd Edition
URL for Resource:  https://e6.ijs.si/~roman/files/tmp/M.Heath-
SComputing/scientific-computing-michael-t-heath.pdf
Notes:
Lecture notes will be available on Canvas
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Grading Scale:
A : >=90%
B : >=80% and < 90%
C : >=70%-and < 80%
D : >=60% and < 70%
F : < 60%
There will be five assignments and two examinations, i.e., the mid-term exam and the final
exam. Each assignment has 10 points (10%); it consists of two parts: written assignment and
programming assignment (MATLAB is used). There are points (10%) awarded for satisfactory
attendance. Both the mid-term exam and the final exam has 20 points (20%) each.
The points for all the coursework components:
5 assignments  - 50%
Attendance  - 10%
Mid-term exam - 20%
Final exam - 20%
Total assessment - 100%
[11.0pt bold] Note 1:  The students are required to attend all lectures. An email notice with acceptable
justification should be sent to the TA before each lecture to be missed. A student missing 5
lectures or more without justification will lose up to 10 points for unsatisfactory attendance
(up to 10%), i.e. deduction of 2 points for each lecture missed.
[11.0pt bold] Note 2:  If the marks earned for the final exam are higher than the marks earned for the mid-
[11.0pt bold] term exam for a student, then only the final exam marks are counted,  towards 40% of the
[11.0pt bold] total assessment,  for the student.
[11.0pt bold] Note 3:  Extra points beyond 100% will be awarded for solving bonus problems or exceptional
learning participation.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
With exception of excused absences allowed by student rule 7, the following late work policy
applies:
No penalty for late work if the student informs the TA or instructor before the deadline with
acceptable reasons. Otherwise, late work will receive a penalty of 20% reduction of marks per
day, for maximum 5 days.
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not considered late
work and is exempted from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ) .
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Topic
[11.0pt bold] Assignment
1
Floating point numbers, computer arithmetic
2
Absolute and relative errors, error propagation
3
Linear algebra about linear systems of equations
Assignment 1
4
Gaussian Method for solving linear system of equation
[10.0pt] week 3- week 4
5
Linear least squares, and the normal equation method
Assignment 2
6
The QR method for solving the linear least squares
problem
[10.0pt] week 5- week 6
7
Polynomial interpolation – the Lagrange form and the
Newton form, Hermite interpolation.
[11.0pt bold] Mid-term Exam
[11.0pt bold] (20%)
8
Solving nonlinear equation, the bisection method and
the Newton method
Assignment 3
9
­ Convergence analysis of iterative root-finding methods
[10.0pt] week 8- week 9
10
Optimization by gradient descent, applications to
machine learning
11
Optimization by the Newton method, the Gauss-
Newton method
Assignment 4
12
Numerical differentiation and integration, Newton-
Cotes quadrature
[10.0pt] week 11- week 12
13
Numerical integration – Gaussian quadrature
Assignment 5
14
Monto Carlo Method (Optional)
[10.0pt] week 13- week 14
15
Revision and examination
[10.0pt bold] Final Exam (20%)