<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 765 Syllabus
Section 600 (58433)
Network Security
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 2:20PM
End Time: 3:35PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  HRBB 113
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Drew Hamilton
Email:  hamilton@tamu.edu
Office Location:  Peterson 223
Phone:  979-845-2758
Office Hours
by appointment
Preferred Contact Method
email
Biography
[12.0pt] John A. “Drew” Hamilton, Jr. is the Director of the
[12.0pt] Texas A&M University Cybersecurity Center and a
[12.0pt] professor of computer science & engineering. Dr.
[12.0pt] Hamilton has a joint appointment with Idaho
[12.0pt] National Laboratory and is a guest scientist at Los
[12.0pt] Alamos National Laboratory. In the four and half
[12.0pt] years Dr. Hamilton has been at Texas A&M he has
[12.0pt] received four Engineering Genesis Awards. At
[12.0pt] Mississippi State University he was the Founding
[12.0pt] Director for the Center for Cyber Innovation.
[12.0pt] Previously he held an endowed chair as Alumni
[12.0pt] Professor of Computer Science and Software
[12.0pt] Engineering with joint appointments in Industrial &
[12.0pt] Systems Engineering and in Management at Auburn
[12.0pt] University and was the Founding Director of the
[12.0pt] Auburn Cyber Research Center. Dr. Hamilton is a
[12.0pt] Fellow of the Society for Modeling & Simulation
[12.0pt] International (SCS), Past Chair of Association for
[12.0pt] Computing Machinery’s (ACM) Special Interest
[12.0pt] Group on Ada (SIGAda) and Past Chair of ACM’s
[12.0pt] Special Interest Group on Simulation (SIGSIM). Dr.
[12.0pt] Hamilton is a senior member of the Institute of
[12.0pt] Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
[12.0pt] During his active duty career in the United States
[12.0pt] Army, he served in several field artillery command
[12.0pt] and staff assignments and qualified in nuclear /
[12.0pt] chemical targeting. Dr. Hamilton served as the
[12.0pt] Director of the Officer Training Department at the US
[12.0pt] Army Computer Science School at Fort Gordon. He
[12.0pt] was a member of the Electrical Engineering &
[12.0pt] Computer Science Faculty of the United States
[12.0pt] Military Academy, West Point where he served as
[12.0pt] the department research director. He led DOD
[12.0pt] program offices with multi-million dollar budgets at
[12.0pt] the Defense Information Systems Agency and the
[12.0pt] Space and Naval Warfare Systems Command.
[12.0pt] Dr. Hamilton has a B.A. in Journalism from Texas
[12.0pt] Tech University, an M.S. in Systems Management
[12.0pt] from the University of Southern California, an M.S. in
[12.0pt] Computer Science from Vanderbilt University and a
[12.0pt] Ph.D. in Computer Science from Texas A&M
[12.0pt] University. Dr. Hamilton is a distinguished graduate
[12.0pt] of the U.S. Naval War College.
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Network Security. (3-0). Credit 3. Fundamental vulnerabilities of the networking
communications and corresponding defense mechanisms covering cryptographic
algorithms with the primary intent to correctly apply them for real-work network
security applications and protocols; vulnerabilities associated within the networking
infrastructures; design of defense mechanisms to defeat vulnerabilities;
investigation of various layers of the networking stack when incorporating the
security mechanisms. Prerequisites: Graduate classification.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Graduate classification.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
describe and analyze the cryptographic algorithms with the primary intent to
correctly apply them for real-work network security applications and protocols.
describe and analyze the vulnerabilities associated within the networking
infrastructures, and design defense mechanisms to defeat these vulnerabilities.
describe and analyze secure email communications protocols and apply them in
practice.
describe and analyze secure web communications protocols and apply them in
practice.
describe and analyze secure communications protocols using virtual private networks and
wireless channels and apply them in practice.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Optional
No Textbook Needed
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
List of graded events
[12.0pt] Event
Points
[12.0pt] Examination 1
[12.0pt] 150
[12.0pt] Examination 2
200
[12.0pt] Examination 3
[12.0pt] 250
[12.0pt] Homework (5)
[12.0pt] 100
[12.0pt] Project 1
[12.0pt] 100
[12.0pt] Project 2
[12.0pt] 100
[12.0pt] Project 3
[12.0pt] 100
[12.0pt] Total
[12.0pt] 1000
Graduate students will have graduate-level expectations and requirements for the three
projects.
A = 900 points or more
B = 800 – 899 points
C = 700 – 799 points
D = 600 – 699 points
F = 599 points or less
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
No late work will be accepted. Please abide by all the deadlines. Exceptions can be made in
genuine circumstances only. Please refer to Student Rule 7 in its entirety for information about
[12.0pt] late work, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.  Work submitted
[12.0pt] by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not considered late work and
[12.0pt] is exempted from the late work policy. (reference  Student Rule 7 )
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Course Topics By Week
Week #
[11.0pt bold] Topic
[11.0pt bold] Assignments
1
Overview / Applied Cryptography Components
HW 1 due
2
Symmetric Key Cryptography
HW 2 due
3
Stream Ciphers and PKI
HW 3 due
4
Authentication
Project 1 Due
5
Software Security
Exam 1
6
Malware Analysis
HW 4 due
7
Kernel Rootkits
HW 5 due
8
Advanced Persistent Threats (APTs)
9
Web Security
Project 2 due
10
Network Defense
Exam 2
11
Vulnerability Analysis
12
Cyber Threat Hunting
Project 3 due
13
Applied AI in Attack & Defense
14
Security Architecture
15
End of course review
Exam 3
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Writing:  Use of AI tools, including ChatGPT, is permitted in this course for students who wish
to use them. To adhere to our scholarly values, students must
cite any AI-generated material that informed their work (this includes in-text citations and/or
use of quotations, and in your reference list). Using an AI tool to generate content without
proper attribution qualifies as academic dishonesty. See
[11.0pt bold] https://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/qanda/data/faq/topics/Documentation/faq0422.html
for information how to properly cite AI tools.
(adapted from University of Massachusetts Amherst,
https://cte.tamu.edu/getmedia/1d5e4ef6-97f1-4065-987f-3c9dfecbb7bd/TAMU-CTE_GenAI-
SyllabusStatementConsiderations.pdf )
Computer Code . In principle you may submit AI-generated code, or code that is based on or
derived from AI-generated code, as long as this use is properly documented in the comments:
you need to include the prompt and the significant parts of the response. AI tools may help
you avoid syntax errors, but there is no guarantee that the generated code is correct. It is your
responsibility to identify errors in program logic through comprehensive, documented testing.
Moreover, generated code, even if syntactically correct, may have significant scope for
improvement, in particular regarding separation of concerns and avoiding repetitions. The
submission itself must meet our standards of attribution and validation.
(from Boris Steipe (2023) “Syllabus Resources”. The Sentient Syllabus Project
http://sentientsyllabus.org  .)
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student responsibility.
Students are expected to attend class and to complete all assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about excused absences,
including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
There is no penalty for failing to attend class. The student will be responsible for all the
material presented during missed lectures. Missing class does not excuse a student from
turning in assignments on their due date. Early turn-ins are acceptable. A student who
expects to be absent from class during an exam should notify the instructor well prior to the
absence and ensure that the absence is meets university criteria for an excused absence.
Unexcused absences during a scheduled exam will result in a grade of zero for the exam.