<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 689 Syllabus
Section 606 (59359)
Special Topics in...
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 5:45PM
End Time: 7:00PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  HRBB 113
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Wenping Wang
Email:  wenping@tamu.edu
Office Location:  Peterson Hall, 416
Phone:  979-862-1165
Office Hours
Monday and Wednesday: 4:00 pm –  5:30 pm, plus online availability
Preferred Contact Method
E-Mail:  wenping@tamu.edu
Biography
https://engineering.tamu.edu/cse/profiles/Wang-Wenping.html
Socials
https://engineering.tamu.edu/cse/profiles/Wang-Wenping.html
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Special Topics in... Credit 0 to 4. Selected topics in an identified area of computer
science. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisite: Approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
[13.0pt] Course Description
This course introduces the state-of-the-art machine learning methods for main tasks in 3D
[12.0pt] computer vision and computer graphics.  The purpose of the course is to bring the
[12.0pt] students to the frontier of machine learning research in 3D computer vision and
[12.0pt] computer graphics through lectures, paper reading and presentations, group
[12.0pt] discussions, assignments, and individual course projects. As background requirement,
[12.0pt] the students are required to have basic knowledge in machine learning, and
[12.0pt] familiarity with computer vision or graphics is desirable but not required. There are
[12.0pt] no exams.
[12.0pt] Among the specific topics to be covered are:
[12.0pt] Neural implicit surfaces, signed and unsigned distance functions
[12.0pt] Surface reconstruction from point clouds
[12.0pt] Neural radiance fields and novel view synthesis, differentiable
[12.0pt] rendering
[12.0pt] Neural surface reconstruction from images and video
[12.0pt] Gaussian splatting for reconstructing radiance fields and surface
[12.0pt] geometry. Fast dense SLAM.
[12.0pt] Reconstruction of dynamic scenes, deformation fields
[12.0pt] Neural Models for human characters, faces and hands. Human
[12.0pt] pose estimation
[12.0pt] Classification, segmentation and compression of 3D shapes
[12.0pt] Generative AI: Diffusion models for 3D content generation
[12.0pt] Generative AI: Human motion generation and video generation
[12.0pt] Large foundations models for vision comprehension and graphics
[12.0pt] modeling
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
[12.0pt] As background requirement, the students are required to have basic
[12.0pt] knowledge in machine learning. Familiarity with computer vision or graphics
[12.0pt] is desirable but not required.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
[12.0pt] Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
[12.0pt] Define the major terms and concepts in neural shape representation and
[12.0pt] neural rendering
[12.0pt] Determine appropriate methods and network architectures for solving 3D
[12.0pt] modeling tasks
[12.0pt] Generate 3D radiance fields or surfaces from points or images
[12.0pt] Apply known algorithms for solving problems in 3D vision and graphics
[12.0pt] Familiar with foundation models for vision and graphics tasks
[12.0pt] Summarize existing research literature about a topic in relevant fields
[12.0pt] Create new machine learning approaches to address problems of current
[12.0pt] interest in 3D vision and computer graphics and evaluate their effectiveness.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Optional
There is no required textbook for this course. Course notes, slides, papers or videos
will be provided in Canvas for the topics covered.
Notes:
There is no required textbook for this course. Course notes, slides, papers or videos will be
provided in Canvas for the topics covered.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[12.0pt] There will be no final exam in this course. But the class expects to meet during that
[12.0pt] time for project presentations, so please keep it open (the specific schedule for that
[12.0pt] day will be decided later in the semester and will depend on enrollment. The
[12.0pt] evaluation will be based on attendance, participation in class discussion and course
[12.0pt] projects.
[12.0pt] Attendance and Participation:  60%
[12.0pt] Course Project: 40%
[12.0pt] The course project will require a survey of works focused on a specific topic, possibly
[12.0pt] with experiments and in-depth analysis and discussions. The details for these will be
[12.0pt] provided separately.
[12.0pt] The expected grading scale will be A  ³  90% > B  ³  80% > C  ³  70% > D  ³  60% > F.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[12.0pt] Assignments (e.g., required components of the course project) are due at the
[12.0pt] beginning of the class on the due date assigned. Late assignments will be accepted
[12.0pt] only if a prior request is made, with acceptable justifications.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[12.0pt] Please see the detailed course arrangement at:
[12.0pt] https://drive.google.com/file/d/180f6w_M6m9wdrtF6Gs0dryYGQLxIGtk5/view?
[12.0pt] usp=sharing
[12.0pt] Course Schedule
[12.0pt] The following schedule is subject to change as we see how the course progresses.
Schedule
[12.0pt] Week
[12.0pt] Topic
[12.0pt] Homework
[12.0pt] due
[12.0pt] Project
[12.0pt] Deadlines
[12.0pt] 1
[12.0pt] Signed distance functions.
[12.0pt] Coordinate-based networks.
[12.0pt] Neural implicit surfaces.
[12.0pt] 2
[12.0pt] Neural surface reconstruction
[12.0pt] from 3D point clouds.
[12.0pt] 3
[12.0pt] Neural radiance fields and novel
[12.0pt] view synthesis. Differentiable
[12.0pt] rendering. NeRF and its
[12.0pt] extensions
[12.0pt] 4
[12.0pt] Neural surface reconstruction
[12.0pt] from images and video.
[12.0pt] NeuS and its extensions.
[12.0pt] 5
[12.0pt] Neural 3D reconstruction of
[12.0pt] dynamic scenes. Deformation
[12.0pt] fields
[12.0pt] 6
[12.0pt] Fast training, sparse input views,
[12.0pt] and generalizable methods for 3D
[12.0pt] reconstruction
[12.0pt] Project
[12.0pt] Proposal
[12.0pt] 7
[12.0pt] Gaussian splatting for radiance
[12.0pt] field and surface reconstruction
[12.0pt] from images and video.
[12.0pt] 8
[12.0pt] Gaussian splatting for fast dense
[12.0pt] SLAM
[12.0pt] 9
[12.0pt] Neural models for human
[12.0pt] characters, faces and hands
[12.0pt] Midterm
[12.0pt] Report on
[12.0pt] Project
[12.0pt] 10
[12.0pt] Human pose estimation and
[12.0pt] human character animation
[12.0pt] 11
[12.0pt] Classification, segmentation and
[12.0pt] compression of 3D shapes in
[12.0pt] neural representations
[12.0pt] 12
[12.0pt] Neural scene representation for
[12.0pt] robotics
[12.0pt] 13
[12.0pt] Diffusion models for 3D content
[12.0pt] generation.
[12.0pt] Project
[12.0pt] Presentation
[12.0pt] 14
[12.0pt] Human motion generation and
[12.0pt] video generation
[12.0pt] Project
[12.0pt] Presentation
[12.0pt] 15
[12.0pt] Foundation models for vision and
[12.0pt] graphics tasks
[12.0pt] Final Report on
[12.0pt] Project
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
N.A.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
AI tools are allowed to facilitate learning, such as editing and proofreading.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
[12.0pt] The students are required to attend all the classes unless there is an
[12.0pt] acceptable reason for absence.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Makeup Work Policy
N.A.