<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 608 Syllabus
Section 600 (46648)
Database Systems
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MWF
Start Time: 3:00PM
End Time: 3:50PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  HRBB 113
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Jianer Chen
Email:  j-chen3@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 428
Phone:  (979) 845-4259
Office Hours
MWF 10:10 am - 11:10 am, PETR 428
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Database Systems. (3-0). Credit 3. Database modeling techniques; expressiveness in
query languages including knowledge representation; manipulation languages data
models; physical data organization; relational database design theory; query
processing; transaction management and recovery; distributed data management.
Prerequisite: CSCE 310 or approval of Instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  CSCE 310 or approval of Instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
understand the fundamentals of database design
develop database systems for applications
understand relational database theory
master efficient query processing techniques
deal with system issues related to database systems
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Database Systems: The Complete Book
ISBN:  978-0-13-187325-4
Authors:  H. Garcia-Molina, J. Ullman, and J. Widom
Publisher:  Pearson Prentice Hall
Publication Date:  2009
Edition:  2nd
This material Is: Recommended
Supplementary reading materials
Authors:  The instructor Jianer Chen
Notes:
posted in Canvas
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
The course has 3 homework assignments, 2 course projects, a midterm exam,
and a final exam.
Exams are taken in-class.
Homework: 6*3 = 18%, Projects: 22+15 = 37%, Midterm Exam: 15%, Final Exam:
30%.
Grading Scale: A = 90-100%, B = 70-89%, C = 60-69%, F = 0-59%.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[12.0pt] The homework and project assignments are due on the designated due dates
[12.0pt bold] at the beginning of class . No late submissions will be accepted. Discuss
[12.0pt] unusual circumstances in advance with the instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Week 1 (1/12- ): Introduction to database systems
Week 2 (1/19- ): Database design
Week 3 (1/26- ): Functional dependency and relation normalization
Week 4 (2/2- ): SQL
Week 5 (2/9- ): SQL (continued), homework #1 due
Week 6 (2/16- ): Constraints and triggers
Week 7 (2/23- ): Memory hierarchy
Week 8 (3/2- ): Query optimization, homework #2 due, midterm exam (3/6)
Week 9 (3/9- ): Spring Break. No classes
Week 10 (3/16- ): Query optimization (continued), course project #1 due
Week 11 (3/23- ): Index structures
Week 12 (3/30- ): System crash recovery
Week 13 (4/6- ): System crash recovery (continued), homework #3 due
Week 14 (4/13- ): Concurrency control
Week 15 (4/20- ): Transaction processing
Week 16 (4/27): Bigdata, course summary, course project #2 due.
May 4, Monday, 10:30am–12:30pm: Final exam
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
All course information will be posted in canvas. You should check your course
announcements, course material and due dates daily. It is strongly
recommended that you keep up with the course material and do not fall
behind. Start working on assignments as soon as they are assigned.
This course is using Canvas Learning Management System. Students submit
their homework and projects via Canvas.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
The use of AI is strictly prohibited in this course.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
Class attendance is strongly recommended. The student is responsible for any
material missed. Missed exams may be made up only when the absence is
university sanctioned. Medical reasons or other extenuating conditions beyond the
control of the student must be properly documented. Discuss unusual
circumstances in advance with the instructor when possible.