<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 110 Syllabus
Section 505 (46253)
Programming I
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MWF
Start Time: 1:50PM
End Time: 2:40PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 310
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 3:30PM
End Time: 4:20PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 582
Credit Hours:  4
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Ki Hwan Yum
Email:  khyum107@tamu.edu
Office Location:  216 Peterson
Phone:  9794580271
Office Hours
M 3:00 pm - 4:00 pm, R 1:00 pm - 2:00 pm
Preferred Contact Method
Email
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Programming I. (3-2). Credit 4. Basic concepts in using computation to enhance
problem solving abilities; understanding how people communicate with computers,
and how computing affects society; computational thinking; representation of data;
analysis of program behavior; methods for identifying and fixing errors in programs;
understanding abilities and limitation of programs; development and execution of
programs.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
[12.0pt] This is an introductory course designed for any student interested in using
[12.0pt] computation to enhance their problem-solving abilities. No prior experience in
[12.0pt] programming is necessary. Students will use their problem-solving abilities to
[12.0pt] implement programs in Python.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
[12.0pt] Develop Computational Thinking: The learner can apply concepts in
[12.0pt] computation to enhance problemp-solving abilities across various disciplines.
[12.0pt] Implement Python Programs: The learner can design, write, and execute
[12.0pt] functional programs in the Python programming language.
[12.0pt] Understand Data Representation: The learner can comprehend how data is
[12.0pt] internally represented within a computer and how people communicate with
[12.0pt] computing systems.
[12.0pt] Degug and Analyze Behavior: The learner can identify and fix errors while
[12.0pt] analyzing the behavior and limitations of specific programs.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Programming in Python 3
ISBN:  978-1-394-02737-8
Authors:  Bailey Miller
Publisher:  zyBooks
Notes:
How to purchase the textbook:
Sign in or create an account at  learn.zybooks.com
Enter zyBooks code:  TAMUCSCE110YumSpring2026
Subscribe (A subscription fee is $69. Students may begin subscribing on
December 29, 2025. Subscriptions will last until May 25, 2026.)
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Grading Table
[12.0pt] Course Grading
[12.0pt] 1 Midterm
[12.0pt] 30%
[12.0pt] 9 Programming
[12.0pt] Assignments
[12.0pt] 10%
[12.0pt] Final exam
[12.0pt] 30%
[12.0pt] 5 Homeworks
[12.0pt] 10%
[12.0pt] 5 Quizzes
[12.0pt] 20%
[14.0pt bold] *** No extra credit/extra work will be given at the end of the
[14.0pt bold] semester. ***
[14.0pt bold] Final Grades:
[14.0pt] Final grades will be assigned as follows:
[14.0pt] 90-100     A
[14.0pt] 80-89       B
[14.0pt] 70-79       C
[14.0pt] 60-69       D
[14.0pt] Below 60 F
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[12.0pt] Programming assignments and homeworks should be submitted on or before the due
[12.0pt] dates. Programming assignment and homework grades will lose 25% for each day
[12.0pt] after the due dates.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Spring 2026 CSCE 110 Schedule
1/12 Class begins
1/16 Last day for adding/dropping courses
1/19 Holiday (No class)
1/20 Lab starts
1/23 Homework 1
1/26 Quiz 1
1/30 Homework 1 Due
2/6 Homework 2
2/9 Quiz 2
2/13 Homework 2 Due
2/23 Review
2/25 Midterm
3/6 Homework 3
3/9 - 3/13 Spring Break (No class)
3/16 Quiz 3
3/20 Homework 3 Due
3/27 Homework 4
3/30 Quiz 4
4/3 Reading Day (No class)
4/6 Homework 4 Due
4/10 Homework 5
4/13 Quiz 5
4/14 Q-Drop/Withdrawal Deadline
4/17 Homework 5 Due
4/27 Review, Class ends
5/1 Sections 500-502 Final Exam (10:30 am - 12:30 pm)
5/4 Sections 503-505 Final Exam (3:30 pm - 5:30 pm)
List of Topics:
Introduction to Python  1 week
Variables and Expressions 2 weeks
Types, Branches, and Loops 1 week
Functions, Recursion and Strings 3 weeks
Lists, Tuples, Sets, and Dictionaries 2 weeks
Classes 2 weeks
Exceptions 1 week
Modules and Files 1 week
Inheritance 1 week
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[12.0pt] Assignments will require use of standard programming style conventions
[12.0pt] and documentation which will be illustrated in lab and lecture examples.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[12.0pt] According to the Texas A&M University Definitions of Academic
[12.0pt] Misconduct, plagiarism is the appropriation of another person's ideas,
[12.0pt] processes, results or words without giving appropriate credit
[12.0pt] (
[12.0pt] ). You should credit your use of anyone else's
[12.0pt] words, graphic images, or ideas using standard citation styles. Artificial
[12.0pt] Intelligence (AI) text generators and natural language processing tools
[12.0pt] (colloquially, chatbots - such as ChatGPT), audio, computer code, video,
[12.0pt] and image generators should not be used for any work for this class
[12.0pt] without explicit permission of the instructor and appropriate attribution.
[12.0pt] This includes, but is not limited to,
[12.0pt] i. Creating or revising drafts
[12.0pt] ii. Editing your work
[12.0pt] iii. Reviewing a peer's work
[12.0pt] aggiehonor.tamu.edu
[12.0pt] This excludes pre-existing software additions such as spelling and
[12.0pt] grammar checkers, which are acceptable.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
[12.0pt] Attendance at all lectures is required to ensure that each student understands the
[12.0pt] informational content of the class and becomes aware of any changes to the tentative
[12.0pt] class exam, quiz, and assignment schedules as noted later in this document. Absence
[12.0pt] from a lecture is not a valid excuse to be misinformed about any class activity, and
[12.0pt] the student maintains the responsibility for all course content.