<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 222 Syllabus
Section 501 (15322)
Discrete Structures for Computing
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Lecture schedule
Lecture schedule
Section
Day
Time
Location
501
Tue, Thu
03:55 PM - 05:10 PM
ZACH 244
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
David Kebo Houngninou
Email:  davidkebo@tamu.edu
Office Location:  Person 439
Phone:  979-845-3937
Office Hours
https://calendly.com/davidkebo/20min
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Discrete Structures for Computing. (3-0). Credit 3. Mathematical foundations from
discrete mathematics for analyzing computer algorithms, for both correctness and
performance; introduction to models of computation, including finite state
machines and Turing machines. Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in MATH 142,
MATH 147, MATH 151, or MATH 171. Cross-listed with ECEN 222.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in MATH 142, MATH 147,
MATH 151, or MATH 171. Cross Listing: ECEN 222/CSCE 222.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
- Understand the basic principles of logic, proofs, and sets.
- Apply results from discrete mathematics to the analysis of algorithms.
- Produce proofs by induction and apply counting techniques.
- Explain models of computation.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Discrete Mathematics and Its Applications, 9th Edition (2025)
ISBN:  978-1-266-04574-9
Authors:  Kenneth H. Rosen
Publisher:  McGraw Hill
Publication Date:  2025
Edition:  9th
URL for Resource:  https://www.mheducation.com/highered/product/discrete-
mathematics-and-its-applications-rosen.html?viewOption=student
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[12.9pt] Grade distribution
Grade distribution
Distribution
Exam 1
15%
Exam 2
15%
Activities
30%
Homework
40%
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[12.9pt] 2. Submission of Work, Deadline Policy, and Late Submission
You must submit all assignments on Gradescope.
Late assignments are not accepted.
The homework is due by 11:59 PM on the due date.
Timed assignments must be submitted within the allocated time.
Email submissions are not accepted.
If you have difficulties finishing an assignment, contact the instructor  before
the deadline.
One-time pass
You are eligible to receive a  one-time  waiver for one late homework.
You can only use the pass  once .
The one-time pass gives you a 24-hour extension past the due date.
Fill out  this form  to submit a late homework within 24 hours after the due
date.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[10.5pt] Class schedule
Class schedule
WEEK DATE   EVENTS/HOLIDAYS HOMEWORK
CLASS TOPIC AND SLIDES
Week
1
13-
JAN
15-
JAN
First day of class
Onboarding
Checklist
Logic and Predicates
Week
2
20-
JAN
22-
JAN
Logic and Predicates
Week
3
27-
JAN
29-
JAN
Proofs
Week
4
03-
FEB
05-
FEB
Proofs
WEEK DATE   EVENTS/HOLIDAYS HOMEWORK
CLASS TOPIC AND SLIDES
Week
5
10-
FEB
12-
FEB
Sets and Functions
Week
6
17-
FEB
19-
FEB
Sets and Functions
Week
7
24-
FEB
26-
FEB
Algorithms and Their
Complexity
Midterm exam review
Week
8
03-
MAR
05-
MAR
Algorithms and Their
Complexity
Midterm exam
Thursday, March 05,
09:00 AM to 11:59 PM
Week
9
10-
MAR
12-
MAR
09-MAR to 13-
MAR
Spring Break
Sequences and Sums
WEEK DATE   EVENTS/HOLIDAYS HOMEWORK
CLASS TOPIC AND SLIDES
Week
10
17-
MAR
19-
MAR
Induction and Recursion
Week
11
24-
MAR
26-
MAR
Counting
Week
12
31-
MAR
02-
APR
Counting
Week
13
07-
APR
09-
APR
Solving Recurrences
Week
14
14-
APR
16-
APR
Relations
WEEK DATE   EVENTS/HOLIDAYS HOMEWORK
CLASS TOPIC AND SLIDES
Week
15
21-
APR
23-
APR
Models of Computation
Week
16
28-
APR
30-
APR
28-APR
Last Day of
Classes
Week
17
05-
MAY
07-
MAY
Final exam
Tuesday, May 04th, 09:00
AM to 11:59 PM
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
[12.9pt] 1. Attendance and Make-up
If an absence is excused, the instructor will provide the student an opportunity to
make up any quiz, exam, or other work that contributes to the final grade or
provide a satisfactory alternative by a date agreed upon by the student and
instructor. The student is responsible for providing satisfactory evidence to the
instructor to substantiate the absence. The reasons absences are considered
excused by the university are the following (see Student Rule 7 for details  student-
rules.tamu.edu/rule07 ). Failure to notify or document properly may result in an
unexcused absence. Falsification of documentation is a violation of the Honor Code.
Participation in an activity that is required for a class and appears on the
university-authorized activity
Death or major illness in a student's immediate family
Illness of a dependent family member
Participation in legal proceedings or administrative procedures that require a
student's presence.
Religious holy day
Injury or illness that is too severe or contagious for the student to attend
class
Injury or illness of three or more class days: The student will provide a
medical confirmation note from their medical provider within one week of the
last date of the absence (see Student Rules 7.1.6.1)
Injury or illness of less than three class days: Student will provide within one
week of the last date of the absence: Confirmation of visit to a health care
professional affirming the date and time of visit
An absence for a non-acute medical service does not constitute an excused
absence.
Required participation in military duties
Mandatory admission interviews for professional reasons or graduate school
Mandatory participation as a student-athlete in NCAA-sanctioned competition
By Title IX of the Educational Amendments of 1972, Texas A&M University
shall treat pregnancy (childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy,
and recovery therefrom) and related conditions as a justification for an
excused absence for so long a period as is deemed medically necessary by
the student's physician. Requests for excused absences related to pregnancy
should be directed to the instructor.
Other absences may be excused at the instructor's discretion with prior notification
and proper documentation. In cases where prior notification is not feasible (e.g.,
accident or emergency), the student must notify by the end of the second working
day after the absence, including explaining why notice could not be sent before the
class. Accommodations sought for absences due to the observance of a religious
holiday can be sought either before or after the absence but not later than two
working days after the absence.
To request an absence, you must fill out and submit a   Request of absence form .
The instructor will review your request and make a decision.
If your request is approved, you are responsible for covering the material you
missed and contacting the instructor to complete any missed assignments.