<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] ISEN 453 Syllabus
Section 501 (45910)
Manufacturing Operations
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 2:20PM
End Time: 3:35PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ETB 2026
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Guy Curry
Email:  g-curry@tamu.edu
Office Location:  ETB 4009
Phone:  979-571-2996 (cell)
Office Hours
Before class from about 12:30-2:00 and after class by arrangement in classroom.
Preferred Contact Method
email: g-curry@tamu.edu
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Manufacturing Operations. (3-0). Credit 3. Analytical principles of manufacturing
systems design, analysis and control; emphasis placed on stochastic analysis; role of
variability and impact on cycle time; push versus pull production strategies including
Kanban and constant WIP control; probability, queuing theory, Little’s Law, heavy
traffic approximations, and queuing networks. Prerequisites: Grade of C or better in
ISEN 340 and MATH 304; junior or senior classification.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in ISEN 340 and MATH 304;
junior or senior classification.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
develop and solve analytical models of push production systems at the
operational level
develop and solve analytical models of pull/CONWIP production systems at
the operational level
develop and solve analytical models of pull/Kanban production systems at the
operational level
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Manufacturing Systems Modeling and Analysis Second Edition
ISBN:  978-3-642-16617-4
Authors:  Guy L. Curry and Richard M. Feldman
Publisher:  Springer
Edition:  2nd
Notes:
Available for free download from Canvas Week 1 Materials
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Homework: 0%
Exam 1: 1/3% (Thursday of Week 4, February 5 )
Exam 2: 1/3% (Thursday of Week 8, March 5) The week before Spring Break.
Exam 3: 1/3% (Thursday, April. 9)
Exam 4: 1/3% (the final period is scheduled for 1-3 pm, Tuesday, May 5)
Note: Best three of the four exams will be used.
Grades assigned are A for 90%–100%, B for 80%–89.9%, C for 70%–79.9%, D for
60%–69.9% and F for less than 60%.
Due to no grading support for this class, I will not pickup and grade homework
assignments. Homework is a major learning experience and is meant to help
prepare you for the exams. As such, I do not expect homework to be done
independently. A suggestion for the homework process is to do each problem on
your own, then check with other students as to the correctness of your solution,
and when incorrect, use that information as an opportunity to improve your
knowledge in this course. We will cover questions and short discussions of the
homework solutions at the start of each lecture period. If something is not
understood that a good time to visit my office or to setup a Zoom help session for
clarifications or ask about it during our weekly Zoom help sessions.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Week by week schedule of topics covered and references to textbook.
[9.0pt bold] Week
[9.0pt bold] Topic
[9.0pt bold] Required Reading
[10.0pt] 1
[10.0pt] Introduction to Factory Models:
[10.0pt] Definitions, Notation, modeling,
[10.0pt] performance, deterministic vs.
[10.0pt] stochastic
[10.0pt] Chapter 2
[10.0pt] 2
[10.0pt] Single Workstation Factory
[10.0pt] Models: Queueing models
[10.0pt] Chapter 3
[10.0pt] 3
[10.0pt] Single Workstation Factory
Models: Markov  models
[10.0pt] Chapter 3
[10.0pt] 4
[10.0pt] Single Workstation Factory
[10.0pt] Models: Balance Equations,
[10.0pt] Exam 1
[10.0pt] Chapter 3
[10.0pt] 5
[10.0pt] Single Workstation Factory
[10.0pt] Models: M/M/1 models, G/G/1
[10.0pt] approximations
[10.0pt] Chapter 3
[10.0pt] 6
[10.0pt] Processing Time Variability:
[10.0pt] Breakdown and repairs, other
[10.0pt] variability
[10.0pt] Chapter 4
[10.0pt] 7
[10.0pt] Single Product Factory Models:
[10.0pt] Departure process
[10.0pt] Chapter 5
[10.0pt] 8
[10.0pt] Single Product Factory Models:
[10.0pt] serial systems, Exam 2
[10.0pt] Chapter 5
[10.0pt] 9
[10.0pt] Single Product Factory Models:
[10.0pt] queueing networks
[10.0pt] Chapter 5
[10.0pt] 10
[10.0pt] Multiple Product Factory
[10.0pt] Models: Multiple Product Flow,
[10.0pt] Service time variability, process
[10.0pt] step modeling, group
[10.0pt] technology
[10.0pt] Chapter 6
[10.0pt] 11
[10.0pt] Models of Various Forms of
[10.0pt] Batching Batch moves, set up
[10.0pt] reduction, batch service
[10.0pt] Chapter 7
[10.0pt] 12
[10.0pt] WIP Limiting Control Strategies:
[10.0pt] Closed Queueing Networks,
[10.0pt] General service times, Exam 3
[10.0pt] Chapter 8
[10.0pt] 13
[10.0pt] WIP Limiting Control Strategies:
[10.0pt] multiple products, CONWIP,
[10.0pt] scheduling rules
[10.0pt] Chapter 8
[10.0pt] 14
[10.0pt] Kanban Models, Exam 4
[10.0pt] Notes and Chapter 9