<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 445 Syllabus
Section 550 (59023)
Computers and New Media
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 2:20PM
End Time: 3:35PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  CLB 114
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Yanlai Wu
Email:  yanlaiwu@tamu.edu
Office Location:  ECRB 309C
Phone:  409-740-5514
Office Hours
TR 12:00pm-1:00pm
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Computers and New Media. (3-0). Credit 3. Potential and realized impact of
computers in the design of new media; relationship between authors and readers
of interactive material; influence of media design on the content expressed.
Prerequisite: CSCE 221 or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  CSCE 221 or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
[10.5pt] analyze characteristics of computer-based media and anticipate likely reactions to
[10.5pt] them
[10.5pt] design software features that support immersion, agency, and transformation
[10.5pt] describe techniques for creating computer characters and narrative control
[10.5pt] develop software for the manipulation/use of audio and/or video
[10.5pt] describe core differences between physical and intellectual property
[10.5pt] assess characteristics of software licenses, software patents, and digital rights
[10.5pt] management software
[10.5pt] design, implement and evaluate software supporting the creation and/or
[10.5pt] consumption of content in specific settings
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Hamlet on the Holodeck: The Future of Narrative in Cyberspace
ISBN:  978-0262533485
Authors:  Janet H. Murray
Publisher:  The MIT Press
Publication Date:  ‎ April 7, 2017
URL for Resource:  https://drive.google.com/file/d/1kUJL9R-
x56oRZ_Bh8VwXgT2PiMu037Ek/view?usp=drive_link (must use TAMU Google
account to access)
This material Is: Recommended
The Public Domain: Enclosing the Commons of the Mind
ISBN:  978-0-300-13740-8
Authors:  James Boyle
Publisher:  Yale University Press
Publication Date:  2008
URL for Resource:
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1lRoHiOSA2SGhPFih8FQmFXvoEu2bCk33/view?
usp=drive_link (must use TAMU Google account to access)
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[11.0pt bold] Short assignments  (20%) : There will be five assignments due in class throughout
the semester. These assignments may require use of specific software outside of
class time and will take the form of short essays, written answers to questions, and
design documents. All material turned in should be printed using a computer
printer or typed except when noted otherwise.
[11.0pt bold] Write-ups  (20%) : There will be four write-ups throughout the semester. Each write-
up should summarize and reflect on the assigned readings from both the current
week and the previous week. All write-ups are due before class begins on the
designated date and must be submitted on time for full credit.
[11.0pt bold] Topic presentation  (20%) : Each student will select one topic from the course
schedule to present. Presentation dates will be scheduled after all students have
signed up for their topics.
[11.0pt bold] Quizzes  (10%) : Quizzes will be prepared and administered by the student
presenters. Each presenter is required to prepare 10 quiz questions based on their
selected chapter or research paper, ensuring the questions reflect the key concepts
and arguments covered in their presentation.
[11.0pt bold] Final project  (30%) : The final project will consist of three components: a short in-
class presentation, a written final report, and a prototype related to the topic or
problem the team chooses to explore. Students may complete the final project
individually or in a team of 2–3 members.
[13.0pt] Grading
[13.0pt] Grading
[10.5pt] A
[10.5pt] 100-90
[10.5pt] B
[10.5pt] 89-80
[10.5pt] C
[10.5pt] 79-70
[10.5pt] D
[10.5pt] 69-60
[13.0pt] F
[10.5pt] <60
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[13.0pt] Late work will not be accepted in the class, except for students with an
[13.0pt] excused absence. If students have difficulties finishing an assignment,
[13.0pt] contact the instructor  before  the deadline.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
The course schedule is tentative and may change slightly during the semester.
Course Schedule
Week Date
Topic
Due Date
1
Jan13
Jan15
Syllabus
Introductions, history of media
studies
2
Jan20
Jan22
Digital narrative and multiform
storytelling
[10.5pt] Assignment 1 due on Jan
[10.5pt] 22 (Thu) at 11:59pm
Course Schedule
3
Jan27
Jan29
Designing software for immersion
[10.5pt] Write-up 1 due on Jan
[10.5pt] 29 (Thu) at 2:20pm
[10.5pt] (before the class time)
4
Feb3
Feb5
Designing software for agency and
transformation
[10.5pt] Assignment 2 due on Feb
[10.5pt] 5 (Thu) at 11:59pm
5
Feb10
Feb12
Interactive media and computer
characters
[10.5pt] Write-up 2 due on
[10.5pt] Feb12 (Thu) at 2:20pm
[10.5pt] (before the class time)
6
Feb17
Feb19
Interactive text and social media
[10.5pt] Assignment 3 due on
Feb  19  (Thu) at 11:59pm
7
Feb24
Feb26
Audio, music, and speech
[10.5pt] Write-up 3 due on Feb
[10.5pt] 26 (Thu) at 2:20pm
[10.5pt] (before the class time)
8
March3
March5   Recorded and authored video
9
Spring Break
10
March17
March19
Games and computer-controlled
characters
[10.5pt] Assignment 4 due on
[10.5pt] March 19 (Thu) at
[10.5pt] 11:59pm
11
March24
March26  Automatic narrative control
[10.5pt] Write-up 4 due on March
[10.5pt] 26 (Thu) at 2:20pm
[10.5pt] (before the class time)
12
March31
April2
Digital rights management
[10.5pt] Assignment 5 due on April
[10.5pt] 2 (Thu) at 11:59pm
13
April7
April9
Property rights and issues
14
April14
April16
Software licenses and intellectual
property
15
April21
April23
Evaluating policy effects
16
April28
Final project presentations
[10.5pt] Final project due on May
[10.5pt] 1 at 11:59pm
Students will sign up for their presentation topics. Presentation due dates will be
assigned and updated once all topic selections are finalized.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[18.0pt bold] Generative AI Policy
[12.0pt] Writing:  Use of AI tools, including ChatGPT, is permitted in this course for
[12.0pt] students who wish to use them. To adhere to our scholarly values, students
[12.0pt] must cite any AI-generated material that informed their work (this includes in-
[12.0pt] text citations and/or use of quotations, and in your reference list). Using an
[12.0pt] AI tool to generate content without proper attribution qualifies as academic
[12.0pt bold] dishonesty. See  www.chicagomanualofstyle.org   for information how to
[12.0pt] properly cite AI tools.
[12.0pt] (adapted from University of Massachusetts Amherst)