<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 411 Syllabus
Section 501 (23995)
Design and Analysis of Algorithms
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MWF
Start Time: 11:30AM
End Time: 12:20PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 350
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Calvin Beideman
Email:  beideman@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 113
Phone:  (979) 845-2479
Office Hours
Follow link to “Office Hours” under “Student Resources” on the course Canvas
homepage.
Preferred Contact Method
Email
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Design and Analysis of Algorithms. (3-0). Credit 3. Study of computer algorithms for
numeric and non-numeric problems; design paradigms; analysis of time and space
requirements of algorithms; correctness of algorithms; NP-completeness and
undecidability of problems. Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in CSCE 221 and
CSCE 222; junior or senior classification or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 221 and
CSCE 222/ECEN 222; junior or senior classification or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Explain a variety of fundamental algorithms and algorithmic techniques
Select the most appropriate algorithm to solve a given problem
Analyze the correctness, runtime, and space complexity of an algorithm
Design new algorithms and modify existing ones using techniques discussed
in class
Recognize when a problem is likely intractable (has no efficient algorithm) and
be able to prove this by showing undecidability or NP-hardness
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Introduction to Algorithms
ISBN:  9780262046305
Authors:  Cormen T.H., Leiserson C.E., Rivest R.L. and
Stein C.
Publisher:  The MIT Press
Publication Date:  2022
Edition:  4th edition
This material Is: Optional
Algorithms
Authors:  Jeff Erickson
URL for Resource:
https://jeffe.cs.illinois.edu/teaching/algorithms/
Notes:
Free online textbook from the professor who taught me
Algorithms at UIUC. Helpful if you want an alternate
explanation of many of the topics in the course.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Grades will be assigned according to the following scale:
Grading Scale
Rounded % total
Letter Grade
100 - 85
A
<85 and  ≥  75
B
<75 and  ≥  65
C
<65 and  ≥  55
D
<55
F
These grades represent varying degrees of achievement (see the  university's
grading system ): A = excellent, B = good, C = satisfactory, D = passing, F = failing.
If you want to challenge any grading, you must do so within one week of when the
grade is published.
I reserve the right to adjust grades upwards (i.e. add a curve), but I do not expect to
do so.
[12.9pt] Homework (20%)
There will be seven homeworks, with one due every other week. Any extensions or
changes to the homework schedule will be posted on the course Canvas
homepage.
All homeworks can be done collaboratively, with a group of up to 4 total students
(only one of the four group members should submit on Gradescope, and they
should include the other group members on the submission). While the group
should only submit one set of solutions for grading, all students in the group should
understand and be able to explain these solutions. I reserve the right to ask you to
orally explain any homework solution submitted by a group you are part of.
You may freely change your group from week to week, or even do the homework
solo. If you would like to work with other students and are struggling to find a
group, reach out to me. You must use the same group for all problems on a
particular homework, however (so you can’t, for example, do one problem with a
group and another solo). Outside of this, collaboration is not permitted.
You are strongly encouraged to typeset your homework solutions in LaTeX using
the template provided on the course Canvas homepage.
All solutions must be in your own words, and you should cite any sources you used.
Do not read or search for solutions to any of the homework problems, any closely
related problems, or any problems from chapters of the book that you have not yet
been assigned homework on. Do not ask any human or AI for solutions to these
problems, other than your groupmates and the course staff. Once a homework
deadline has passed, you are free to discuss those homework problems and
problems from the relevant portion of the textbook with whomever you wish (to
prepare for exams, for example).
[12.9pt] Quizzes (5%)
Quizzes on Canvas will be due before most lectures covering assigned readings
from the textbook or course notes for that lecture. These quizzes must be
completed individually. Your lowest 4 quiz grades will be dropped.
[12.9pt] Midterm Exams (45%)
Three midterm exams, each worth 15% of your course grade. Taken on paper
during the lecture period.
[12.9pt] Final Exam (30%)
Cumulative, paper-only (no computers allowed) and taken in your lecture room
during your lecture exam time set by the registrar.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late homeworks are not accepted and are worth 0 points.
If your circumstances make it difficult for you to contribute to a particular
homework on time, I encourage you to negotiate with your groupmates to allow
someone else to pick up your slack in exchange for more contributions from you on
a future homework.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[12.9pt] Topics and Midterm Exam Schedule
The schedule of topics is tentative and subject to change.
Topic and Midterm Exam Schedule
Week   Topics
Exams
1
Proofs, Induction, and Loop Invariants
Week   Topics
Exams
2
Decidability and Undecidability
3
Big-O and Divide and Conquer
4
Graph basics, BFS and DFS
5
Single Source Shortest Paths
Exam 1
6
Minimum Spanning Trees and Matchings
7
Maximum Flows
8
Recursive Backtracking and Dynamic Programming
9
Dynamic Programming
Exam 2
10
Dynamic Programming and Greedy Algorithms
11
Linear Programming
12
NP
13
Proving NP-Hardness
Exam 3
14
Approximation, Online, and Randomized Algorithms
15
Interactive Proofs and Final Exam Review
[12.9pt] Exam Schedule
All exams are held in the regular classroom ZACH 350. The three midterm exams
will take place during the regular class time (11:30 a.m. - 12:20 p.m.)
Exam 1: Friday, February 13
Exam 2: Friday, March 20
Exam 3: Wednesday, April 15
Final Exam: Tuesday, May 5, 10:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m
[12.0pt] Homework Due Dates
The normal pattern is every other Monday:
1. Monday, January 26
2. Monday, February 9
3. Monday, February 23
4. Monday, March 16
5. Monday, March 30
6. Monday, April 13
7. Monday, April 27
Any extensions will be posted under Announcements on the course Canvas
homepage.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[12.9pt] Professionalism and Respect
You are expected to treat your instructor and all other participants in the course
with courtesy and respect. Your comments to others should be factual,
constructive, and free from harassing statements. You are encouraged to disagree
with other students, but such  disagreements need to be based upon facts and
documentation  (rather than prejudices and personalities).
Unprofessional or disrespectful conduct will result in a lower grade on an
assignment. Warnings will not be given; part of the learning process in this course is
the respectful engagement of ideas with others.
Students will need to contribute in intelligent, positive, and constructive manners
within the course. Behaviors that are abusive, disruptive, or harassing may result in
disciplinary actions as specified within the Student Rules.
Students in this course are also responsible for being familiar with the  University’s
student rules and policies .
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Artificial Intelligence (AI) text generators and natural language processing tools
(colloquially, chatbots - such as ChatGPT), audio, computer code, video, and image
generators  must not be used in any way  for completing assignments or
assessments in this course. This includes not just copying output from AI tools but
also using AI tools to summarize a homework assignment, to get high level
algorithmic ideas or to improve your grammar. Students engaging in AI use to
complete course work will be reported and sanctioned.