<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 438 Syllabus
Section 500 (17008)
Distributed Systems
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MWF
Start Time: 09:10AM
End Time: 10:00AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  HRBB 113
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Radu Stoleru
Email:  stoleru@cse.tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 324
Phone:  979-862-8349
Office Hours
Tue/Th: 11:30am-12:30pm
Preferred Contact Method
Email with Subject Line:  CSCE438-Spring2026
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Distributed Systems. (3-0). Credit 3. Principles and techniques for engineering
distributed systems with topics including communication, concurrency,
programming paradigms, naming, managing shared state, caching, synchronization,
reaching agreement, fault tolerance, security, middleware and distributed
applications; design, implement and debug large software systems. Prerequisite:
CSCE 313; junior or senior classification, or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
[10.5pt] The objectives for this course are for students to gain an understanding of the principles
[10.5pt] and practices (e.g., locking, concurrency, scheduling, communication across networks,
[10.5pt] fault tolerance, protocols, remote procedure calls, file sharing, reliable system design,
[10.5pt] load balancing, protection and security) behind the design of distributed processing
[10.5pt] systems, such as Google, Facebook, Amazon, Yahoo and Microsoft, and to gain
[10.5pt] practical experience designing, implementing, and debugging distributed systems.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
[12.0pt] Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  CSCE 313; junior or senior classification, or
[12.0pt] approval of instructor.
[12.0pt] Restrictions:  None
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
[12.0pt] Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
[12.0pt] Implement and structure distributed system programs that operate
[12.0pt] using well-defined protocols
[12.0pt] Write computer programs that interoperate using well-defined protocols
[12.0pt] Employ and create common paradigms (remote procedure calls and
[12.0pt] message oriented middleware) for easing the task of distributed
[12.0pt] systems programming
[12.0pt] Debug highly concurrent code that spans multiple programs running on
[12.0pt] multiple machines
[12.0pt] Reason about distributed algorithms for locking, synchronization and
[12.0pt] concurrency, scheduling, and replication
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Distributed Systems
Authors:  Maarten van Steen, Andrew S. Tanenbaum
Publication Date:  January 2025
Edition:  4.0.3
URL for Resource:  https://www.distributed-systems.net/index.php/books/ds4/
This material Is: Required
Research papers distributed in class
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[10.5pt] Homework: 10%
[10.5pt] Machine Problems (MPs): 40%
[10.5pt] Midterm Exam 1: 15%
[10.5pt] Midterm Exam 2: 15%
[10.5pt] Final Exam: 20%
[10.5pt] The grading scale will be: A ≥ 90% > B ≥ 80% > C ≥ 70% > D ≥ 60% > F.
[10.5pt] Assignments: there will be 5 Machine Problems (MPs) involving C/C++ and Java
[10.5pt] programming. There will be 6 homework assignments. The exams will be in class, closed
[10.5pt] book, closed notes, pencil-paper based, with a "cheat-sheet" provided by the instructor.
[10.5pt] The Final Exam is cumulative, with 80% of the questions covering material from the
[10.5pt] Midterm 2.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[10.0pt] One Machine Problem (MP) submission will be accepted with no penalty for up to 4 days late.
[10.0pt] The allowable 4 late days cannot be split among multiple Machine Problems. Allowable late
[10.0pt] days are for emergencies. All other late Machine Problems will be accepted with a penalty of
[10.0pt] 20% per late day.
[10.5pt] No late submissions will be accepted for homework.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[10.5pt] Course Schedule
[10.5pt bold] Week
[10.5pt bold] Topic
[10.5pt bold] Assignments
[10.5pt] 1
[10.5pt] Introduction
[10.5pt] 2-3
[10.5pt] Processes and Communication
[10.5pt] 4
[10.5pt] Architectures
[10.5pt] MP1 Due
[10.5pt] 5-6
[10.5pt] Coordination
[10.5pt bold] Midterm 1 ( Friday, Feb 20, in class )
[10.5pt] 7
[10.5pt] Coordination
[10.5pt] 8
[10.5pt] Consistency and Replication
[10.5pt] MP2 Due
[10.5pt] 9
[10.5pt] Fault Tolerance, Google Chubby, Apache
[10.5pt] Zookeeper
[10.5pt] 10
[10.5pt] Distributed File Systems, Google GFS,
[10.5pt] Apache HDFS
[10.5pt bold] Midterm 2 ( Friday, March 27, in class )
[10.5pt] 11
[10.5pt] Big Data Storage, Google Big Table, Key-
[10.5pt] value Stores
[10.5pt] MP3 Due
[10.5pt] 12
[10.5pt] Big Data Processing, MapReduce, Apache
[10.5pt] Hadoop
[10.5pt] 13
[10.5pt] Real Time Stream Processing, Spark, Storm
[10.5pt] 14
[10.5pt] Edge Computing, MStorm
[10.5pt] MP4 Due
[10.5pt bold] Week
[10.5pt bold] Topic
[10.5pt bold] Assignments
[10.5pt bold] Final Exam ( May 1st, 2026, 8am-10am, in
[10.5pt bold] class )
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[12.0pt] According to the Texas A&M University Definitions of Academic Misconduct,
[12.0pt] plagiarism is the appropriation of another person's ideas, processes, results or words
[12.0pt] without giving appropriate credit (aggiehonor.tamu.edu). You should credit your use
[12.0pt] of anyone else's words, graphic images, or ideas using standard citation styles.
[12.0pt] Artificial Intelligence (AI) text generators and natural language processing tools
[12.0pt] (colloquially, chatbots - such as ChatGPT), audio, computer code, video, and image
[12.0pt] generators should not be used for any work for this class without explicit permission
[12.0pt] of the instructor and appropriate attribution. This includes, but is not limited to, i)
[12.0pt] Creating or revising drafts; ii) Editing your work; iii) Reviewing a peer's work. This
[12.0pt] excludes pre-existing software additions such as spelling and grammar checkers,
[12.0pt] which are acceptable.