<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 412 Syllabus
Section 550 (59021)
Cloud Computing
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 2:20PM
End Time: 3:35PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  CLB 210
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Marian Zaki
Email:  mzaki@tamu.edu
Office Location:  Engineering Classroom and Research Building (ECRB) – Room
309F
Phone:  409-740-5511
Office Hours
M 11:30 AM – 1:00 PM
T 9:30 PM – 10:30 AM
F 9:00 AM – 12:30 PM By appointment
Preferred Contact Method
mzaki@tamu.edu
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Cloud Computing. (3-0). Credit 3. Operating system and distributed systems fields
that form the basis of cloud computing such as virtualization, key-value storage
solutions, group membership, failure detection, peer to peer systems, datacenter
networking, resource management and scalability; popular frameworks such as
MapReduce and HDFS and case studies on failure determination. Prerequisite:
Grade of C or better in CSCE 315 or CSCE 331.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 315 or CSCE 331.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
[12.0pt] At the conclusion of this course, students should be able to:
[12.0pt] ● Discuss the concepts of cloud computing
[12.0pt] ● Utilize key underlying technologies such as virtualization
[12.0pt] ● Design and build simple architectures in cloud
[12.0pt] ● Monitor and manage lifecycle of virtual entities in cloud using tooling from
[12.0pt] a major cloud provider
[12.0pt] ● Produce highly available, elastic and resilient systems using cloud
[12.0pt] architectural patterns
[12.0pt] ● Analyze problems and solutions to become an entry level cloud
[12.0pt] practitioner
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Optional
Cloud Computing with Security – Concepts and Practices
Authors:  Naresh Kumar Sehgal, Pramod Chandra P.Bhatt, John M.Acken
Publisher:  Springer
Edition:  2nd edition
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Weighted Assessments
Method of Evaluation
Weight
AWS Academy Modules
[11.0pt bold] 40%
Guided Labs
35%
Knowledge Checks
5%
Course Project
30%
Attendance and Class Presentations
10%
Midterm
10%
Final Exam
10%
[11.0pt bold] Total Possible Score
[11.0pt bold] 100%
[11.0pt bold] Guided Labs
Cloud is a vast topic and unlike many of Computer Science basic and foundational
classes, it is simply impractical to cover all the material in lecture hours as well as
practically apply them. The other challenge is, as much as we will attempt to discuss
cloud computing topics in this course in a vendor agnostic way, it’s impractical to
get any hands-on experience without actually utilizing a vendor (the irony of cloud!)
Hence, this course will automatically enroll you in AWS Learning Academy through
the A&M’s partnership with AWS. The online courses will give you access to lab work
activities which are designed to help you better understand and apply cloud
concepts and are crucial to developing skills that are key for entry level cloud
practitioners to perform in their first year of any developer’s job. Lab exercises are
to be completed individually and submitted by due date.
[11.0pt bold] Knowledge Checks
Knowledge Checks are multiple choice questions to be completed online every
week after completing the modules. The knowledge checks are available online for
24 hours, you can take them anytime in the day and submit them. It is made up of
10 to 20 questions. These knowledge checks cover the module topics, so you must
watch the videos and read the materials for each module before you attempt the
knowledge checks. Sufficient time is provided so that time is not a problem in
completing the knowledge checks. You are prohibited from using online tools or AI
to complete these knowledge checks.
[11.0pt bold] Course Project
The course project is a multi-phase, open-ended team-based project in which
teams will choose a system to design and implement as a cloud-native software
system. Students will work together to design, architect, and deploy the application
on a public cloud platform. The phases will progressively help the teams define
system requirements, decompose the system into microservices, design service
APIs, and map architectural components to appropriate cloud services.
The project emphasizes cloud architecting principles, and DevOps practices by
establishing a continuous integration and continuous deployment (CI/CD) pipeline
that supports independent service deployment.
Here is the grading breakdown of the different project phases:
Course Project Phases
​Project Phase
Weight
Phase 0 – Team Formation and Project Pitch
5%
Phase 1 – System Requirements and Services Decomposition
25%
Phase 2 – CI/CD pipeline and Cloud Services Mapping
20%
Phase 3 – Final System Implementation and Deployment
50%
[11.0pt bold] Total Possible Score
[11.0pt bold] 100%
Peer reviews will be part of the project assessment process, 30% of the final project
grade will be allocated to individual contribution.
GitHub setup:
The course project will be developed using a CI/CD pipeline that will start from
GitHub, each project team must create a  private  repository on GitHub. The
professor must be granted access to the repository to monitor the project activities.
The repository is a documentation of the development process, hence teams must
have clear commit messages documenting all changes made along the way. The
GitHub usage will impact the project grade. For example, code added to the
repository and submitted within a short period (the magic of going from no code to
a working solution quickly) will result in extensive deduction of points. The GitHub
will also be used to monitor individual team members contributions.
[11.0pt bold] Attendance and Active Classroom Participation
Coming prepared for class is defined as having studied the material
covered in the previous class, arriving to class on time.
10% of the course grade will be assigned to attendance, active classroom
participation and general classroom behavior and etiquette. Here are the
things that can result in points deducted
Missing more than 2 classes without prior notification and acceptable
absence (See attendance policy section)
Constant cell phone use
Arriving more than 5 minutes late for class
Having earbuds/headphones on (even if not being used)
Browsing Internet, playing games or working on other course work
during class time
Random walks in and out of class
The following grading scale is based on the total average weighted grades earned
over the course of the semester.
Letter Grades
Grade
Range
A
90 ≤ Score
B
80 ≤ Score < 90
Grade
Range
C
70 ≤ Score < 80
D
60 ≤ Score < 70
F
Score < 60
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Each student gets  one free pass  for a late submission (up to 3 days) with no
penalty. The free pass must be claimed before the deadline (student must
email the professor). One day late submission will have 10% points deducted,
two days late submission will have 20% points deducted. No later
submissions will be graded. The free pass can be reclaimed for extra credit at
the end of the semester if never utilized (great deal!)
Students with 504 accommodations will get the necessary accommodations
per their accommodation letter
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
A tentative list of topics for each part is included below. Students are required to
complete the AWS Academy modules listed below each week by the indicated due
date. Weekly in-class discussion topics are tentative based on the progress of the
course (and possible  invited industry guest speakers ), any changes to be made to
the weekly schedule will be clearly communicated in class and through Canvas.
Course Schedule
[11.0pt bold] Dates
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Topics
01/13 - 01/15
01
Course Introduction and Expectations
Motivation for Cloud
[11.0pt bold] Dates
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Topics
[11.0pt bold] Foundations Course
Module 1: Cloud Concepts Overview
Module 2: Cloud Economica and Billing
Module 3: AWS Global Infrastructure
Due: 01/24
01/19
02
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day
01/20 - 01/22
02
Cloud and Distributed Computing
Project Phase 0 Released
[11.0pt bold] Foundations Course
Module 4: AWS Cloud Security
Module 5: Networking and Content Delivery
Due: 01/31
01/27 - 01/29
03
Designing Cloud Based Solutions
Virtualization
[11.0pt bold] Foundations Course
Module 6: Compute
Module 7: Storage
Module 8: Databases
Due: 02/07
02/03 - 02/05
04
Containers
Class Group Activity: Creating Docker Container
Projects Pitches + Project Phase 1 Released
[11.0pt bold] Foundations Course
Module 9: Cloud Architecture
Module 10: Auto Scaling and Monitoring
Due: 02/14
02/10 - 02/12
05
Microservices
Class Group Activity: Identifying the projects’
microservices
[11.0pt bold] Cloud Developing Course
Module 1: Developing Course Introduction
Module 2: Introduction to Developing on AWS
Module 3: Developing Storage Solutions
Due: 02/21
02/17 - 02/19
06
Elasticity and Auto Scaling
Load Balancers
[11.0pt bold] Cloud Developing Course
Module 4: Securing Access to Cloud Resources
Module 5: Developing Flexible NoSQL Solutions
Due: 02/28
[11.0pt bold] Dates
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Topics
02/24 - 02/26
07
Cloud Management
[11.0pt bold] Cloud Developing Course
Module 6: Developing REST APIs
Project Phase 1 due
Due: 03/07
03/03 - 03/05
08
[11.0pt bold] Midterm Exam
Migrating to the cloud
Project Phase 2 released
[11.0pt bold] Cloud Developing Course
Module 7: Developing Event-Driven Serverless Solutions
Module 8: Introducing Containers and Container Services
Due: 03/14
03/09 - 03/13
--
Spring Break – No Classes
[11.0pt bold] Cloud Developing Course
Module 9: Caching Information for Scalability
Module 10: Developing with messaging services
Due: 03/21
03/17 - 03/19
09
Cloud Workload Characterization
Identity and Access Management
[11.0pt bold] Cloud Developing Course
Module 11: Defining Workflows to Orchestrate Functions
Due: 03/28
03/24 - 03/26
10
Cloud Monitoring and Problem Detection
Project CI/CD Pipeline setup
[11.0pt bold] Cloud Developing Course
Module 12: Developing Secure Applications
Due: 04/04
03/31 - 04/02
11
Project Cloud Architecture Mapping + Project
Phase 3 released
[11.0pt bold] Cloud Developing Course
Module 13: Automating Deployment with CI/CD Pipeline
[11.0pt bold] Project Phase 2
Due: 04/11
04/07 - 04/09
12
Cloud Security
04/14 - 04/16
13
Project Working Sessions
04/21 - 04/23
14
Project Working Sessions
[11.0pt bold] Dates
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Topics
04/28 - 04/29
15
Last week of classes, reserved for review and catch
up
Project Final Presentations
[11.0pt bold] Project Phase 3
Due: 04/29
04/29
16
No Class – Reading Day
04/30
16
Final Exam – Time/duration to be confirmed
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[10.5pt] Unless indicated in the assignment or project and authorized by the professor, the use of
[10.5pt] generative AI to complete the work will be considered a violation of academic integrity. If
[10.5pt] in doubt about what it means or counts as a utilization of generative AI, ask the professor
[10.5pt] prior to attempting the task to avoid any unexpected penalties, in other words: Ask for
[10.5pt] permission instead of forgiveness.