<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] ISEN 399 Syllabus
Section 500 (39434)
Professional Development
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: INS
Meeting Days:
Start Time: N/A
End Time: N/A
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Credit Hours:  0
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Jose Vazquez
Email:  vazquez@tamu.edu
Office Location:  Engineering Technology Building (ETB)
Room 3030
Phone:  979-574-1714
Office Hours
Tuesday noon-1:30
Preferred Contact Method
email
Biography
TAMU class of '75. Academic degrees: BA Pol Sci; MA
English Lit & Writing Pedagogies; MS National Security
Strategy. Veteran who served 27 years in the Army.
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Professional Development. (0-0). Credit 0. Participation in an approved high-impact
learning practice; reflection on professional outcomes from engineering body of
knowledge; documentation and self-assessment of learning experience at mid-
curriculum point. Prerequisites: Grade of C or better in ISEN 210 and ISEN 230;
senior classification.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in ISEN 210 and ISEN 230; senior
classification.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
[14.0pt] Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
[14.0pt] Learn from an extracurricular experience
[14.0pt] Apply course content as necessary
[14.0pt] Fulfill a graduation requirement
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[14.0pt] This “course” fulfills the requirement for each undergraduate student in
[14.0pt] the college of engineering to document their participation in a  high-
[14.0pt] impact learning   practice . This requirement was established because of
[14.0pt] the value it adds to a student’s learning and the likelihood that a hands-
[14.0pt] on learning experience provides lessons that are more imbedded and
[14.0pt] more effectively reinforce classroom instruction—directly and indirectly.
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
AP Stylebook
Subtitle:  57th Edition
ISBN:  978-0-917360-71-8.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[14.0pt] The single submission for this course will be graded on a pass/fail (S/U)
[14.0pt] basis.
[14.0pt] All submissions in this course are via  Canvas . There is no need to use
[14.0pt] sources in the paper you will write for this course, but if you borrow
[14.0pt] content and do not know how to document borrowed content, ask me.
[14.0pt] All submissions will be washed through  Turnitin.  If you have no
[14.0pt] experience with the  Turnitin  software or think you will not get caught, I
[14.0pt] strongly advise you not to take the risk.  Turnitin  has been around for at
[14.0pt] least 10 years and checks submissions against its repository of papers and
[14.0pt] the Internet. If you submit content that  Turnitin  flags and my inquiry
[14.0pt] reveals academic dishonesty, expect to have an honors case and an F* on
[14.0pt] your record. While the * can get removed if you successfully complete
[14.0pt] remediation training, the “F” will not.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[14.0pt] There are three submission opportunities. If you miss one,
[14.0pt] submit to the next opportunity. If you miss the last submission
[14.0pt] opportunity, contact me ASAP.
[14.0pt] Submission Dates
Submissiondates are 2/16, 2/23, and 4/20.
[14.0pt bold] Date
[14.0pt bold] Requirement
[14.0pt] Monday 2/16/26
[14.0pt] 1 st  Opportunity
[14.0pt] Monday 3/23/26
[14.0pt] 2 nd  Opportunity
[14.0pt] Monday 4/20/26
[14.0pt] Last Opportunity
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[14.0pt] There are no classes in this course. The only requirement is the
[14.0pt] essay you write. Which date you choose to submit is your
[14.0pt bold] decision.  Submit once and only once unless your initial
[14.0pt bold] submission fails.
[14.0pt] Submission Dates
[14.0pt] Submission dates are 2/16, 3/23, and 4/20.
[14.0pt bold] Date
[14.0pt bold] Requirement
[14.0pt] Monday 2/16/26
[14.0pt] 1 st  Opportunity
[14.0pt] Monday 3/23/26
[14.0pt] 2 nd  Opportunity
[14.0pt] Monday 4/20/26
[14.0pt] Last Opportunity
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[14.0pt] AI is allowed for reviewing content you produce. It is not allowed
[14.0pt] for producing the essay.
[14.0pt] The ISEN Department Faculty upholds the  Aggie Honor Code
[14.0pt] as an axiom of our academic excellence. We consider its
[14.0pt] sincere observance essential for membership in our
[14.0pt] department and Texas A&M. We extend to you the trust
[14.0pt] conferred to those who faithfully adhere to our honor code.
[14.0pt] Abuse of this trust is intolerable; thus we will report and assign
[14.0pt] an extreme penalty* to those who do not stand with us in
[14.0pt] preserving the integrity symbolized by the  Aggie Honor Code ,
[14.0pt] “An Aggie does not lie, cheat, or steal or tolerate those who
[14.0pt] do."
[14.0pt] Any work submitted for this course’s requirements constitutes
[14.0pt] each student's certification that the entirety of the content and all
[14.0pt] approaches, techniques, and applications utilized resulted from
[14.0pt] only the student. There will be absolutely no tolerance extended to
[14.0pt] any student found in violation of this policy or the
[14.0pt] Aggie Honor Code .
[14.0pt bold] *  In this course the penalty for any violation of the Aggie
[14.0pt bold] Honor Code, regardless of how minimal the violation may
[14.0pt bold] be, is an F*.  Incidents of academic dishonesty will be handled in
[14.0pt] accordance with university  rules and procedures specified at
[14.0pt] http://aggiehonor.tamu.edu .
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
[14.0pt] This course does not meet, so attendance is not an issue.