<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] ISEN 310 Syllabus
Section 501 (57444)
Uncertainty Modeling for Industrial Engineering
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 2:20PM
End Time: 3:35PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 345
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Uncertainty Modeling for Industrial Engineering. (3-0). Credit 3. Models and
methods based on probability and statistics for industrial engineering applications;
random variables, expectation, distribution fitting, reliability of systems, central limit
theorem and interval estimates in the context of production and service systems.
Prerequisites: Grade of C or better in ISEN 230 or concurrent enrollment; grade of
C or better in STAT 211.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in ISEN 230 or concurrent
enrollment; grade of C or better in STAT 211.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
[10.5pt] Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
[10.5pt] Explain basic concepts behind sample spaces, probability laws, random variables,
[10.5pt] and independence.
[10.5pt] Apply mathematical descriptions of random variables and the notion of
[10.5pt] expectation in solving engineering problems.
[10.5pt] Analyze data by means of computing point estimates and confidence intervals;
[10.5pt] and estimating/fitting distributions.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Introduction to Probability
Authors:  D. Bertsekas and J. Tsitsiklis
Publisher:  Athena Scientific
Publication Date:  2008
Edition:  second
Notes:
BT
This material Is: Recommended
Introduction to Probability
Authors:  D. Anderson, T. Seppalainen and B. Valko
Publisher:  Cambridge University Press
Publication Date:  2018
Notes:
ASV
This material Is: Recommended
Introduction to Probability for Data Science
Authors:  S. Chen
Publisher:  Michigan Publishing
Publication Date:  2021
Notes:
C
This material Is: Optional
A First Course in Probability
Authors:  S. Ross
Publication Date:  2018
Edition:  10th
This material Is: Optional
Probability and Statistics for Engineers and Scientists
Authors:  R. Walpole, R. Myers, S. Myers and K. Ye
Publisher:  2016
Edition:  9th
[16.0pt] Additional Instructional Materials
This Material is: Required
RStudio
URL for Resource:  rstudio.com
This Material is: Required
R
URL for Resource:  r-project.org
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Grading scale: A = [90, 100]%, B = [80, 90)%, C = [70, 80)%, D = [60, 70)%, F
= [0, 60)% .
Graded items for the course: three exams (non-cumulative, closed-book),
programming assignments.
Weights: Exam 1 – 35%, Exam 2 – 30%, Exam 3 – 25%, Programming
Assignments – 10%.
Homework: Not collected; solutions will be given. It is extremely important that
you spend time solving homework problems. Do not peek into the solutions
early.
Grading appeals: Every effort will be made to ensure that grading is as
objective and fair as possible. If you believe that there is an error in the
grading, please submit, in writing, as appeal within one week of your work
being returned. However, please be advised that if you submit such an appeal,
the entire assignment/exam will be regraded to ensure that all parts are
properly graded. As such, your grade on the exam/assignment could increase
or decrease based on the secondary grading.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[10.5pt] Work submitted after a deadline is considered late and will not be accepted.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[10.5pt] Course schedule
[10.5pt bold] Week   Topic
[10.5pt bold] Reading material
[10.5pt] 1
[10.5pt] Probability basics
[10.5pt] ASV: Appendix B, 1.1, 1.2, 1.4, 2.1-2.3, 2.5
[10.5pt] BT: 1.1-1.5
[10.5pt] C: 2.1-2.4
[10.5pt] 2
[10.5pt] Probability basics
[10.5pt] 3
[10.5pt] Random variables
[10.5pt] ASV: 2.4, 3.1, 3.2, 5.2, 6.1-6.3, 7.1, 10.1, 10.2
[10.5pt] BT: 2.1-2.3, 2.5-2.7, 3.1, 3.2, 3.4, 3.5, 4.1
[10.5pt] C: 3.1-3.3, 3.5, 4.1, 4.3, 4.5-4.7, 5.1, 5.3, 5.5
[10.5pt] 4
[10.5pt] Random variables
[10.5pt] 5
[10.5pt] Random variables
[10.5pt bold] Week   Topic
[10.5pt bold] Reading material
[10.5pt] 6
[10.5pt] Expectation
[10.5pt] ASV: 3.3, 3.4, 5.1, 8.1, 8.4, 10.3
[10.5pt] BT: 2.4-2.6, 3.1, 3.4, 4.3-4.5
[10.5pt] C: 3.4, 4.2, 5.2, 5.4, 6.1
[10.5pt] 7
[10.5pt] Expectation
[10.5pt] 7
[10.5pt bold] Exam 1  (2/26/26, in class)
[10.5pt] 8
[10.5pt] Expectation
[10.5pt] 9
[10.5pt] Spring break
[10.5pt] 10
[10.5pt] Limit theorems
[10.5pt] ASV: 3.3, 4.2, 4.3, 8.5, 9.2, 9.3
[10.5pt] BT: 2.4-2.6, 3.1, 3.4, 4.3-4.5
[10.5pt] C: 6.2.4, 6.3, 6.4
[10.5pt] 11
[10.5pt] Limit theorems
[10.5pt] 12
[10.5pt] Estimation and hypothesis
[10.5pt] testing
[10.5pt] BT: 9.1, 9.3, 9.4
[10.5pt] C: 8.1, 8.2, 9.1, 9.3, 9.5
[10.5pt] 13
[10.5pt bold] Exam 2  (4/7/26, in class)
[10.5pt] 13
[10.5pt] Estimation and hypothesis
[10.5pt] testing
[10.5pt] 14
[10.5pt] Estimation and hypothesis
[10.5pt] testing
[10.5pt] 15
[10.5pt] Estimation and hypothesis
[10.5pt] testing
[10.5pt bold] Exam 3  (05/05/26 1:00pm)
[16.0pt] AI Statement
With the emergence of artificial intelligence (AI) technologies, the ways in which
we define our creative processes continue to transform. AI generators are
rapidly evolving from simple editing for grammatical errors and spelling
mistakes (Grammarly, MS Word Spell Check) to sophisticated text production
(ChatGPT, Google Bard, etc.), as well as image, computer code, and audio
generation. The presence of such tools, however, does not replace our need to
learn how to draft, revise, and reflect on texts, programs, drawings and how to
exercise information literacy and personal responsibility in how we locate,
evaluate, incorporate, and cite primary/ secondary sources. For example, the
Association for Writing Across the Curriculum states the following: Writing to
learn is an intellectual activity that is crucial to the cognitive and social
development of learners and writers. This vital activity cannot be replaced by AI
language generators (AWAC).
Engaging in the various aspects of creative pursuits (e.g., writing, coding,
drawing) is critical to education in a broad sense. While AI technologies will
continue shaping how we approach these creative tasks, the critical work of
creativity relies on integrity, originality, and ethical conduct in regard to
appropriate representation as an author or creator. Thus, submitting work with
a significant percentage of AI-generated content, unless otherwise permitted,
can be considered academic misconduct under Texas A&M University Student
Rule 20. Students must therefore cite the use of Generative AI tools and
document what they have contributed to an assignment.