<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 470 Syllabus
Section 200 (58535)
Information Storage and Retrieval
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MWF
Start Time: 10:20AM
End Time: 11:10AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  EABB 106
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Ruihong Huang
Email:  huangrh@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 328
Phone:  979-862-2908
Office Hours
[13.0pt] Tuesdays   and   Thursdays : 11  am  -12  pm
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Information Storage and Retrieval. (3-0). Credit 3. Representation of, storage of and
access to very large multimedia document collections; fundamental data structures
and algorithms of current information storage and retrieval systems and relates
various techniques to design and evaluation of complete retrieval systems.
Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in CSCE 315 or CSCE 331 or approval of
instructor.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
[10.5pt] This course will introduce the key concepts, models, algorithms and techniques at the
[10.5pt] core of modern text-based search systems. The topics covered in this course include
[10.5pt] efficient text indexing, Boolean, vector space and probabilistic retrieval models, retrieval
[10.5pt] evaluation, relevance feedback, document classification, learning to rank, document
[10.5pt] clustering and link analysis. The students will have an opportunity to implement key
[10.5pt] retrieval models on top of an open-source search engine system.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 315 or CSCE 331 or
approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
[10.0pt] • Define and explain the key concepts and models relevant to information storage and
[10.0pt] retrieval.
[10.0pt] • Implement important algorithms, recognize and fix common problems in practice.
[10.0pt] • Design and develop his/her own text search systems addressing customized
[10.0pt] information needs.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Introduction to Information Retrieval
Authors:  Christopher D. Manning, Prabhakar Raghavan, and Hinrich Schutze
Publisher:  Cambridge University Press
Publication Date:  2008
[16.0pt] Additional Instructional Materials
This Material is: Optional
lecture slides and links to resources on the internet
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[10.0pt] The course grading policy is as follows: two programming assignments (30%), four written
[10.0pt] assignments (20%), mid-term exam (20%), class participation (5%) and class project (25%).
[10.0pt] Class
[10.0pt] participation will be measured through attendance in class, submission of assignments,
[10.0pt] participation in online piazza discussions and completion of online course evaluation.
[10.0pt] The grading scale is: A: 90-100, B: 80-89, C: 70-79, D: 60-69, F: 0-59. Scores are rounded
[10.0pt] up.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[10.0pt] The late policy is: for the programming/written homework assignments, you have a total of 5
[10.0pt] late days
[10.0pt] that you can use during the semester. However, a single assignment can be submitted up to
[10.0pt] 2 days
[10.0pt] late only. For the purposes of the class, a late day is an indivisible 24-hour unit. Once you
[10.0pt] exhaust
[10.0pt] your 5 late days, we will not accept any late submissions.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Tentative schedule
[9.0pt bold] Week
[9.0pt bold] Topic
[10.0pt] 1
[10.0pt] Overview and Vector space model
[10.0pt] 2
[10.0pt] BM25
[10.0pt] 3
[10.0pt] Retrieval Evaluation
[10.0pt] 4
[10.0pt] Relevance Feedback, #1 programming
[10.0pt] assignment due
[10.0pt] 5
[10.0pt] Learning to Rank & language models, #1
[10.0pt] written assignment due
[10.0pt] 6
[10.0pt] Document Classification
[10.0pt] 7
[10.0pt] Indexing & The Boolean Retrieval model
[10.0pt] 8
[10.0pt] 9
[10.0pt] Flat clustering, #2 Programming
[10.0pt] assignment due
[10.0pt] Hierarchical clustering, #2 written
[10.0pt] assignment due
[10.0pt] 10
[10.0pt] Link analysis
[10.0pt] 11
[10.0pt] Large Language Models, #3 written
[10.0pt] assignment due
[10.0pt] 12
[10.0pt] Retrieval Augmented Generation, #4
[10.0pt] written assignment due
Tentative schedule
[10.0pt] 13
[10.0pt] 14
[10.0pt] 15
[10.0pt] Other Trending topics
[10.0pt] Other Trending topics
[10.0pt] Project Presentations
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[10.5pt] This course assumes that all work submitted by students will be generated by the
[10.5pt] students themselves. Students should not have another person/entity do the writing of
[10.5pt] any substantive portion of an assignment for them, which includes hiring a person or a
[10.5pt] company to write assignments and using artificial intelligence tools like ChatGPT.