<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 314 Syllabus
Section 550 (45725)
Programming Languages
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 2:20PM
End Time: 3:35PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  CLB 112
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Zoran Budimlic
Email:  zoran@tamu.edu
Office Location:  ECRB 309H
Phone:  409-740-8873
Office Hours
4-5PM on Tuesdays and Thursdays
Preferred Contact Method
email
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Programming Languages. (3-0). Credit 3. Exploration of the design space of
programming languages via an in-depth study of two programming languages, one
functional and one object-oriented; focuses on idiomatic uses of each language and
on features characteristic for each language. Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in
CSCE 221, or concurrent enrollment.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
[10.0pt] This course explores the design space of programming languages via an in-depth study of
[10.0pt] the most common features and constructs in programming languages, using several
[10.0pt] programming languages to illustrate them: OCaml (statically-typed, functional), Racket
[10.0pt] (dynamically-typed, functional), Ruby (dynamically-typed, object-oriented) and Java
[10.0pt] (statically-typed, object-oriented). The course focuses on idiomatic uses of functional and
[10.0pt] object-oriented languages and on feature characteristics of those categories of languages.
[10.0pt] This course goes into details of how programs written in high-level programming languages
[10.0pt] are executed. This includes topics such as static and dynamic environment, internal program
[10.0pt] representations, type checking, and interpreting. Students will learn about implementation
[10.0pt] approaches of common abstraction mechanisms and modern programming language
[10.0pt] constructs. The course explores the use of the functional programming approach to design
[10.0pt] and implement programs, as well as study the main features of object-oriented languages.
[10.0pt] Although the course uses and studies four specific programming languages, learning these
[10.0pt] languages should be considered as a side benefit of the course, not the main goal.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 221, or concurrent
enrollment.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Use modern programming languages effectively
Develop the necessary skills to learn and adopt new programming languages
Evaluate the power of programming languages and their constructs
Apply language constructs, common abstraction mechanisms, and efficiency
considerations
Analyze the meaning and efficiency of functional and object-oriented programs
Master many specific language concepts and use them effectively to build
correct and elegant software
Although the course uses and studies specific programming languages, learning
these languages should be considered as a side benefit of the course, not the main
goal.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Canvas
Notes:
[10.0pt] https://canvas.tamu.edu
[16.0pt] Additional Instructional Materials
This Material is: Optional
The OCam System, Release 5.2
URL for Resource:  https://ocaml.org/manual/5.2/index.html
This Material is: Optional
OCaml Programming: Correct + Efficient + Beautiful
URL for Resource:  https://cs3110.github.io/textbook/cover.html
This Material is: Optional
Get up and running with OCaml
URL for Resource:  https://ocaml.org/docs/up-and-running
This Material is: Optional
Quick: An introduction to Racket with Pictures
URL for Resource:  https://docs.racket-lang.org/quick/index.html
This Material is: Optional
The Racket guide
URL for Resource:  https://docs.racket-lang.org/guide/index.html
This Material is: Optional
Ruby essentials
URL for Resource:  http://www.techotopia.com/index.php/Ruby_Essentials
This Material is: Optional
Why's (Poignant) Guide to Ruby
URL for Resource:  https://poignant.guide/
This Material is: Optional
Java Programming Language (textbook, free from TAMU library)
URL for Resource:  https://go.oreilly.com/TAMU/library/view/-/0321349806/?ar
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[10.0pt bold] In-class Quizzes:  100 points total
[10.0pt bold] Homeworks:  500 points total. 5 programming homeworks. Each of the assignments will
[10.0pt] be worth the same grade value, though the effort needed will vary quite markedly in
[10.0pt] terms of total amount of code, the conceptual understanding that the student must
[10.0pt] master, and algorithmic and puzzle-solving ability needed. On average there will be one
[10.0pt] due every 2.5 weeks, though spacing of submission deadlines will accommodate the
[10.0pt] variance in homeworks.
[10.0pt bold] Midterm exam:  200 points
[10.0pt bold] Final exam:  200 points
[10.0pt bold] Class participation:  30 points
A >= 900 points
B = 800-899 points
C = 700-799 points
D = 600-699 points
F = <600 points
[13.0pt] Return of Graded Work / Regrading
[10.0pt] We will make an effort to complete the grading of work within one week of the turnin date. If
[10.0pt bold] you believe your work was graded incorrectly or incompletely, you must  submit a regrade
[10.0pt bold] request in Gradescope within one week.  Only if you can prove to the grader that your
[10.0pt] solution is correct and complete will your work be regraded.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late work will not be accepted in the class, except for students with an excused absence.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Weekly Topics
Week
Topic
[10.0pt] 1
[10.0pt] Language aspects; synax, semantics, idioms, libraries, tools
[10.0pt] OCaml basics: Bindings, conditionals, records, functions
[10.0pt] 2
[10.0pt] Recursive functions and types
[10.0pt] Local bindings, options, scope
[10.0pt] 3
[10.0pt] Algebraic datatypes, pattern matching
[10.0pt] Tail recursion, nested patterns, exceptions
[10.0pt] 4
[10.0pt] Higher-order functions, closures
[10.0pt] Lexical scoping
Week
Topic
[10.0pt] 5
[10.0pt] Currying, syntactic sugar
[10.0pt] Equivalance and effects
[10.0pt] 6
[10.0pt] Mutation, mutation idioms
[10.0pt] Type inference
[10.0pt] 7
[10.0pt] Abstract types and modules
[10.0pt] Monads
[10.0pt] 8
[10.0pt] Racket basics
[10.0pt] Dynamic vs. static typing
[10.0pt] Laziness, streams, memorization
[10.0pt bold] Midterm Exam (Date and Time TBD)
[10.0pt] 9
[10.0pt] Language implementation (interpreters)
[10.0pt] Macros
[10.0pt] 10
[10.0pt] Abstract types via dynamic type creation and simple
[10.0pt] contracts
[10.0pt] Continuations
[10.0pt] 11
[10.0pt] Ruby basics
[10.0pt] Classes, Objects, pure object-oriented approach
[10.0pt] Dynamic dispatch, Duck typing
[10.0pt] 12
[10.0pt] Implementing dynamic dispatch
[10.0pt] OOP vs. functional program decomposition
[10.0pt] Double dispatch, visitor pattern
[10.0pt] 13
[10.0pt] Multiple inheritance, interfaces, mixins
[10.0pt] Subtyping for records, functions and objects
[10.0pt] 14
[10.0pt] Class-based subtyping
[10.0pt] Subtyping vs. parametric polymorphism, bounded
[10.0pt] polymorphism
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[13.0pt] No Use of Generative AI Tools Permitted
According to the Texas A&M University Definitions of Academic Misconduct, plagiarism is the
appropriation of another person's ideas, processes, results or words without giving
appropriate credit (aggiehonor.tamu.edu). You should credit your use of anyone else's words,
graphic images, or ideas using standard citation styles. Artificial Intelligence (AI) text
generators and natural language processing tools (colloquially, chatbots - such as ChatGPT),
audio, computer code, video, and image generators should not be used for any work for this
class without explicit permission of the instructor and appropriate attribution. This includes,
but is not limited to,
i. Creating or revising drafts
ii. Editing your work
iii. Reviewing a peer's work
This excludes pre-existing software additions such as spelling and grammar checkers, which
are acceptable.
All assignments should be fully prepared by the student. Developing strong competencies in
the skills associated with this course, from student-based brainstorming to project
development, will prepare you for success in your degree pathway and, ultimately, a
competitive career. Therefore, the use of generative AI tools to complete any aspect of
assignments for this course are not permitted and will be treated as plagiarism. If you have
questions about what constitutes a violation of this statement, please contact the instructor.
[14.0pt] Academic Integrity Statements and Policy