<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] ISEN 302 Syllabus
Section 500 (53801)
Economic Analysis of Engineering Projects
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 09:10AM
End Time: 10:00AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 344
Credit Hours:  2
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Ashwini Ravindran
Email:  ashwinir@tamu.edu
Office Location:  ETB 4010 (shared office)
Phone:  979 845 5531
Office Hours
By appointment
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Economic Analysis of Engineering Projects. (2-0). Credit 2. Principles of economic
equivalence; time value of money; analysis of single and multiple investments;
comparison of alternatives; capital recovery and after-tax analysis of economic
projects. Prerequisites: Grade of C or better in MATH 152 or MATH 172; also taught
at Qatar campus.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in MATH 152 or MATH 172; also
taught at Qatar campus.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Make engineering decisions based on an economic analysis of alternatives;
Explain and demonstrate the principles of economic equivalence and time
value of money;
Formulate and solve equations using interest factors and formulas;
Distinguish between nominal and effective interest rates and convert
between them;
Identify and determine constituent cash flows of single and/or multiple
investments;
Examine, diagram, and compare investment alternatives on an economic
basis using appropriate terminology;
Conclude and justify the best investment alternative(s) based on appropriate
analysis;
Develop and construct spreadsheet models to investigate alternatives;
Determine and utilize appropriate capital recovery methods for alternatives;
Compute and summarize after-tax analysis of projects.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Fundamentals of Engineering Economic Analysis
ISBN:  9781118881156
Authors:  John A. White, Kellie S. Grasman, Kenneth E.
Case, Kim LaScola Needy, David B. Pratt
Publisher:  Wiley Global Education
Publication Date:  2020-06-11
Edition:  2nd
Notes:
First edition would also suffice for the major part of the
course but some chapters have certain updates in the
second edition.
For school bookstore:
[12.0pt bold] Physical Access Code  ISBN 9781119504399
[12.0pt bold] Instant Access Code  ISBN 8220124000720
[16.0pt] Additional Instructional Materials
This Material is: Required
Lecture Slides
Notes:
Lecture slides shall be made available prior to every lecture.
This Material is: Required
Note Regarding Course Materials
Notes:
Materials such as but not limited to lecture notes, quizzes, homework, practice
exams, exams, etc. that are provided as part of this course are intended solely for
your personal academic use and it is not allowed to distribute these materials by
any means or upload them to any other website unless you have been granted
written permission to do so.
This Material is: Optional
WileyPlus
Notes:
WileyPlus has been enabled for the course and can be accessed from the menu in
the left side bar by clicking on "Wiley Course Resources".
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
There would be 3 exams and an optional final exam. Exam 4 (which is the optional
final exam) is provided as an opportunity for improving your grades.
Exam 1  – 25%
Exam 2  – 25%
Exam 3  – 25%
In-Class Quizzes  – 5%
Homework  - 20%
Exam 4 (Optional Final Exam)  - replaces the lowest grade among the 3
exams.
It is important that all the graded tests / assignments are completed on your own, in
accordance with the Aggie Honor Code and the rules specified for each assignment.
You may not discuss the problems with anyone else until after everyone has
finished taking the test/assignment.
Exam Policy:
All exams and in-class quizzes must be taken in-person in class.
In-class exams would be closed book and closed notes. You are allowed a
one-page single-side handwritten cheatsheet (paper size limited to
Letter)  for exams.
In-class quizzes would be closed book and closed notes unless otherwise
specified. Cheatsheets are  NOT allowed  for in-class quizzes.
Cash-flow tables needed for the exam would be provided along with the test
paper and must be returned along with the test paper at the end of the test.
Hand-held calculators are allowed  to be used during exams/quizzes.  No
other electronic devices  can be used during exams/quizzes.
Mobile phones, tablets, laptops and other interactive electronic devices
may NOT be used to serve as a calculator  unless an exception has been
granted by the instructor for certain quizzes.
If you do not have a calculator or run into an issue, you may be able to
borrow it from Evans Library prior to the test. Plan in advance since
availability may fluctuate based on demand. It might also be easier to borrow
one from a friend.
Regarding Optional Final Exam:
There is no penalty for taking the optional final exam.
The grade for the optional final exam would be used to replace the lowest
grade among the first 3 exams only if it would improve your existing grade. If
you do not do well on the optional exam, the original grades for the first 3
exams would be retained.
You are allowed to take the optional final  ONLY if you have taken all 3
exams . i.e. Exam 1, Exam 2 and Exam 3.
If you have missed either Exam 1, Exam 2 or Exam 3 due to a valid university-
excused absence (must provide verifiable documentation), then the optional
final exam grade would be used to replace the grade for the missing exam. In
this case, the optional final exam grade would not be used to replace any
other test grade.
[11.0pt bold] Grading Policy for Homework, Quizzes and Exams:
You must explain the logic and show the steps involved in calculation to
demonstrate how you arrived at the answer for every numerical problem on
any given assignment. i.e. the steps (including the formula used) must be
written in the test paper that you submit for in-class exams/quizzes and in
attachment you upload for homework. This also applies to multiple choice
questions that have a numerical answer.
If the work submitted does not clearly indicate your reasoning or outline
steps as to how you arrived at the solution, the points for that question would
be reduced to zero. This is done in order to discourage guess work and can
also help with partial credit.
For each assignment problem, you need to indicate the corresponding
question number for each answer on your written submission.
Homework assignments are to be submitted electronically through Canvas. In
case you face an issue accessing Canvas while within the submission
deadline, you can e-mail your homework to the instructor/TA within the
deadline.
Policy regarding late submissions have been outlined below.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
If you miss any graded quiz/test/assignment, you must contact the instructor
as soon as possible with a written authorized excuse. These have to be
discussed with me via e-mail and the student must be able to provide all
supporting documentation that can be verified. Make up assignments will be
given in accordance with University Rules (see Student Rule 7 at
http://student-rules.tamu.edu ).
If you have missed either Exam 1, Exam 2 or Exam 3 due to an university-
excused absence (must provide verifiable documentation), then the optional
final exam grade would be used to replace the grade for the missing exam. In
this case, the optional final exam grade would not be used to replace any
other test grade.
[11.0pt bold] The following instructions apply  ONLY  to Homework Assignments (take-home
submissions which constitute 20% of the final grade):
[11.0pt bold] You can use up to  1 late day per homework  with no penalty , limited to
[11.0pt bold] a maximum of 3 late days during the entire semester . Using 1 late
[11.0pt bold] day would allow you to submit your homework  within 24 hours  of the
[11.0pt bold] original deadline. You  cannot  use more than 1 late day on any
individual homework assignment. You won’t get more than 3 late days in
any given semester, so use them wisely.
Assignment submissions beyond the given deadline are not accepted
unless you are within your limit for late days as outlined below. Hence,
plan on submitting all assignments early in case you happen to
encounter some kind of technical difficulties later on. Remember that it
is your responsibility to ensure that your work has been submitted
properly.
If you use more than 3 late days during the semester, then that
particular homework assignment and any subsequent late homework
submissions would not be given any points.
Late days DO NOT APPLY to quizzes or exams.
In some cases, certain late assignment submissions may be accepted
at the discretion of the instructor. Any intention of using more than 3 late
days for homework in a given semester would require you to produce
verifiable valid documentation for university allowed excuses, including
documentation for the prior 3 days as well – with penalty adjudged on a
case-by-case basis.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Course Schedule for Spring 2026
[10.0pt bold] Week Date
[10.0pt bold] Topic
1
[10.0pt] 1/12
[10.0pt] 1/14
[10.0pt] An Overview (Chap. 1)
[10.0pt] 2
[10.0pt bold] 1/19 (no class)
[10.0pt] 1/21
[10.0pt bold] Martin Luther King, Jr. Day
[10.0pt] Time Value of Money (Chap. 2)
[10.0pt] 3
[10.0pt] 1/26
[10.0pt] 1/28
[10.0pt] Time Value of Money (Chap. 2)
[10.0pt] 4
[10.0pt] 2/2
[10.0pt] 2/4
[10.0pt] Time Value of Money (Chap. 2)
[10.0pt] 5
[10.0pt] 2/9
[10.0pt] 2/11
[10.0pt] Equivalence, Loans, and Bonds (Chap. 3)
[10.0pt] 6
[10.0pt] 2/16
[10.0pt] 2/18
[10.0pt] Equivalence, Loans, and Bonds (Chap. 3)
[10.0pt] Present Worth (Chap. 4)
[10.0pt] 7
[10.0pt] 2/23
[10.0pt] Present Worth (Chap. 4)
[10.0pt] 7
[10.0pt bold] 2/25
[10.0pt bold] Exam 1  (Chap. 1, 2, 3)
[10.0pt] 8
[10.0pt] 3/2
[10.0pt] 3/4
[10.0pt] Present Worth (Chap. 4)
[10.0pt] Annual and Future Worth (Chap. 5)
[10.0pt bold] Week Date
[10.0pt bold] Topic
[10.0pt] 9
[10.0pt bold] 3/9 (no class)
[10.0pt bold] 3/11 (no class)
[10.0pt bold] Spring Break
[10.0pt] 10
[10.0pt] 3/16
[10.0pt] 3/18
[10.0pt] Annual and Future Worth (Chap. 5)
[10.0pt] Rate of Return (Chap. 6)
[10.0pt] 11
[10.0pt] 3/23
[10.0pt] 3/25
[10.0pt] Rate of Return (Chap. 6)
[10.0pt] Replacement Analysis (Chap. 7)
[10.0pt] 12
[10.0pt] 3/30
[10.0pt] Depreciation (Chap. 8)
[10.0pt] 12
[10.0pt bold] 4/1
[10.0pt bold] Exam 2 (Chap. 4, 5, 6)
[10.0pt] 13
[10.0pt] 4/6
[10.0pt] 4/8
[10.0pt] Income Taxes (Chap. 9)
[10.0pt] 14
[10.0pt] 4/13
[10.0pt] 4/15
[10.0pt] Income Taxes (Chap. 9)
[10.0pt] Break-Even, Sensitivity, and Risk Analysis (Chap. 11)
[10.0pt] 15
[10.0pt] 4/20
[10.0pt] Break-Even, Sensitivity, and Risk Analysis (Chap. 11)
[10.0pt] 15
[10.0pt bold] 4/22
[10.0pt bold] Exam 3 (Chap. 7, 8, 9, 11)
[10.0pt] 4/27
[10.0pt] Exam Review (tentative)
[10.0pt bold] 5/1
[10.0pt bold] Exam 4 (Optional Final Exam)  8.00 am -10.00 am
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[13.0pt] Regarding Course Materials
Materials such as but not limited to lecture notes, quizzes, homework, practice
exams, exams, etc. that are provided as part of this course are intended solely for
[11.0pt bold] your personal academic use and it is  not allowed  to distribute these materials by
any means or upload them to any other website unless you have been granted
written permission to do so.
[13.0pt] Other Information
The grading scheme may be modified at the discretion of the instructor if a situation
arises where it may be necessary and any such changes would be announced at
least a week in advance.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Any form of AI assistance cannot be used for exams, quizzes or other assignments.