<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 469 Syllabus
Section 500 (54817)
Advanced Computer Architecture
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MWF
Start Time: 1:50PM
End Time: 2:40PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  HRBB 126
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
EJ Kim
Email:  ejkim@tamu.edu
Office Location:  208 Peterson Building
Phone:  (979) 845-3660
Office Hours
30 mins right after class
Preferred Contact Method
email
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Advanced Computer Architecture. (3-0). Credit 3. Advanced computer architectures
including memory designs, pipeline techniques, and parallel structures such as
vector computers and multiprocessors. Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in ECEN
350 or CSCE 350; junior or senior classification. Cross-listed with ECEN 469.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in ECEN 350/CSCE 350 or
CSCE 350/ECEN 350; junior or senior classification. Cross Listing:
ECEN 469/CSCE 469.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
[12.0pt] The main objective of this course is to provide an opportunity for students to
[12.0pt] learn about computer architecture with an emphasis on microprocessor
[12.0pt] microarchitecture. Upon successful completion of the course, a student will
[12.0pt] be able to:
[12.0pt] Understand microarchitecture of modern computing systems
[12.0pt] Understand how software and hardware cooperate to run programs
[12.0pt] Design hardware enhancements to improve the performance and
[12.0pt] analyze the performance of different implementations
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Computer Architecture
ISBN:  9780128119068
Authors:  John L. Hennessy, David A. Patterson
Publisher:  Morgan Kaufmann
Publication Date:  2017-11-23
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[12.0pt] Grading Scale
[12.0pt] Standard Letter Grading Scale:
[12.0pt] A = 90-100%
[12.0pt] B = 80-89%
[12.0pt] C = 70-79%
[12.0pt] D = 60-69%
[12.0pt] F = <60%
[12.0pt] The course consists of lectures, reading, homework, project and exams. The
[12.0pt] grade will be computed as follows:
[12.0pt] Midterm 25 %
[12.0pt] Final Exam 25 %
[12.0pt] Term Project 25 %
[12.0pt] Homework & Class Participation 25 %
[12.0pt] Exams: The midterm examination will be held on Friday, March 6 from 1:40 -
[12.0pt] 2:00 p.m. The final examination will be held on Monday, May 4 from 3:30 -
[12.0pt] 5:30 p.m. following the University schedule. The exams will cover all material
[12.0pt] up to that point, so you are responsible for mastering all homework material.
[12.0pt] All exams will be closed book and closed notes (unless otherwise stated).
[12.0pt] In the case of schedule conflict, please contact the instructor to arrange a
[12.0pt] makeup exam time. Documentation will be required for any make-up exams,
[12.0pt bold] and must be arranged  two weeks in advance . No last-minute
[12.0pt] accommodations will be made.
[12.0pt] Assignments: Homework will be assigned as lecture topics are completed.
[12.0pt] Reading assignments will be assigned associated with lecture topics.
[12.0pt] Assignments will be released on the canvas. The correct approach is to start
[12.0pt] working on assignments as early as possible and contact the instructor or TA
[12.0pt] when you encounter difficulties. In general, the closer to the deadline you
[12.0pt] request our assistance, the harder it may be to obtain our help.
[12.0pt] Submission of Work: All assignments deliverables must be submitted
[12.0pt] electronically, by the due date, through Canvas (unless otherwise specified).
[12.0pt] Late assignments are not going to be accepted in general, unless a
[12.0pt] University sanctioned excuse is provided ahead of time. A student will earn
[12.0pt] points when he/she submits the assignment on time, by the partial credit
[12.0pt] policy. Note that email submissions will not be accepted (they will be ignored
[12.0pt] without notice). You have to follow the submission and media policies and
[12.0pt] guidelines published on the web.
[12.0pt] Re-grading Policy: A student can request re-grading of assignments and
[12.0pt] exams, if he/she believes that the points assigned are inconsistent with the
[12.0pt] quality and merits of the submitted work. To request re-grading you have to
[12.0pt] follow the guidelines below.
[12.0pt] 1.  Regrading requests must be submitted AT MOST ONE WEEK AFTER
[12.0pt] the item has been graded and returned to the student and solutions have
[12.0pt] been made public. After this time limit NO re-grading requests will be
[12.0pt] honored.
[12.0pt] 2.  Re-grading requests must be as specific as possible and must be
[12.0pt] accompanied by a reasonable amount of justification and documentation.
[12.0pt] Requests must be in written form for major assignments and exams.
[12.0pt] 3.  E-mails must be sent to TAs and graders or the instructor within the one
[12.0pt] week time limit.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[12.0pt] Late work will not be accepted in general. Turn in all work by the established
[12.0pt] deadline. In case you have difficulties finishing an assignment, contact the
[12.0pt] TA or the instructor before the deadline. Late work can be accepted only
[12.0pt] under documented circumstances beyond the student's control and if
[12.0pt] possible by prior arrangement with the Instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[12.0pt] Schedule
[12.0pt bold] Week   Topic
[12.0pt bold] Readings for
[12.0pt bold] Next Time
[12.0pt bold] Out
[12.0pt bold] In (Due)
[12.0pt] 1-2
[12.0pt] Introduction & Chap.
[12.0pt] 1/App.A
[12.0pt] Chapter 1,
[12.0pt] Appendix A
[12.0pt] HW1
[12.0pt] 3
[12.0pt] App. C
[12.0pt] Appendix C
[12.0pt] HW1
[12.0pt] 4
[12.0pt] Chap. 3 ILP- Branch
[12.0pt] Predictor
[12.0pt] Chapter 3
[12.0pt] HW2
[12.0pt] 5-6
[12.0pt] Chap. 3 ILP -
[12.0pt] Scheduling
[12.0pt] Chapter 3
[12.0pt] 7
[12.0pt] Chap.3 ILP-Hardware
[12.0pt] Speculation, Midterm   Chapter 3
[12.0pt] Project
[12.0pt] ProposalHW3   HW2
[12.0pt] 8
[12.0pt] App.B
[12.0pt] Appendix B
[12.0pt] HW3
[12.0pt] 9
[12.0pt] Chap. 2 Memory
[12.0pt] Basics/App.B
[12.0pt] Chapter 2
[12.0pt] HW4
[12.0pt] Proposal
[12.0pt] 10
[12.0pt] Chap. 2 Memory
[12.0pt] Optimization
[12.0pt] Chapter 2
[12.0pt] 11
[12.0pt] Chap. 2 TLB/Vitual
[12.0pt] Memory
[12.0pt] Chapter 2
[12.0pt] 12
[12.0pt] Chap. 4 SIMD
[12.0pt] Chapter 4
[12.0pt] HW4
[12.0pt] 13
[12.0pt] Chap. 4 SIMD-GPU
[12.0pt] Chapter 4
[12.0pt] HW5
[12.0pt] 14
[12.0pt] Chap. 5 TLP
[12.0pt] Chapter 5
[12.0pt] 15
[12.0pt] Chap. 5 Cache
[12.0pt] Coherence
[12.0pt] Chapter 5
[12.0pt] HW5
[12.0pt] 16
[12.0pt] Final Exam
[12.0pt] Term
[12.0pt] Paper
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
N/A
[16.0pt] AI Statement
With the emergence of artificial intelligence (AI) technologies, the ways in which we
define our creative processes continue to transform. The presence of such tools,
however, does not replace our need to learn how to draft, revise, and reflect on
texts, programs, and lectures, as well as how to exercise information literacy and
personal responsibility in how we locate, evaluate, incorporate, and cite primary or
secondary sources.
Overall, education includes preparing leaders to be the innovators and leaders of
tomorrow. That means we need to learn to use emerging technologies responsibly.
Therefore, generative AI tools (e.g., ChatGPT, Google, Bard, Dall-E 2) is permitted on
assignments in this course if you wish to use them. AI is not intended to do all the
work for you but rather to get you started with ideas or to provide feedback on your
progress.
To adhere to scholarly values, cite any AI-generated material that informed your
work (this includes in-text citations and/or use of quotations, and in a reference list).
Using an AI tool to generate content without proper attribution qualifies as
academic dishonesty. As a general rule, no more than 30% of an assignment should
come directly from text generated from an AI tool. For an example of how to cite a
generative AI tool using APA 7th edition, see the APA Style Blog for the correct way
to cite ChatGPT. You would use this citation within the text (body of your
paper/assignment) and for your references list.