<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 633 Syllabus
Section 700 (44010)
Machine Learning
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days:
Start Time: N/A
End Time: N/A
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ONLINE ONLINE
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Bobak Mortazavi
Email:  bobakm+csce633-700@tamu.edu
Office Location:  308 PETR
Phone:  979.458.2642
Office Hours
M 3-4 PM and By Appointment
Preferred Contact Method
e-mail
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Machine Learning. (3-0). Credit 3. Machine learning is the study of self-modifying
computer systems that can acquire new knowledge and improve their own
performance; survey machine learning techniques, which include induction from
examples, conceptual clustering, explanation-based learning, exemplar learning and
analogy, discovery and genetic algorithms. Prerequisite: CSCE 420 or CSCE 625.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  CSCE 420 or CSCE 625.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
[10.0pt] Upon completion of the course students are expected to be able to:
[10.0pt] formalize  the fundamental techniques and methods of machine learning: methods,
[10.0pt] data processing, model selection, etc.
[10.0pt] analyze and compare  the strengths and weaknesses of commonly used machine
[10.0pt] learning approaches
[10.0pt] evaluate    the underlying mathematical relationships within and across advanced
[10.0pt] machine learning algorithms and the paradigms of supervised and unsupervised
[10.0pt] learning
[10.0pt] design, implement, and apply  various advanced machine learning algorithms in a
[10.0pt] range of real-world applications.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
An Introduction to Statistical Learning
ISBN:  9783031387470
Authors:  Gareth James, Daniela Witten, Trevor Hastie,
Robert Tibshirani, Jonathan Taylor
Publisher:  Springer Nature
Publication Date:  2023-06-30
URL for Resource:  https://www.statlearning.com/
This material Is: Required
The Elements of Statistical Learning
ISBN:  9780387848587
Authors:  Trevor Hastie, Robert Tibshirani, Jerome
Friedman
Publisher:  Springer Science & Business Media
Publication Date:  2009-08-26
URL for Resource:
https://hastie.su.domains/ElemStatLearn/
This material Is: Recommended
Deep Learning
ISBN:  9783031454684
Authors:  Christopher M. Bishop, Hugh Bishop
Publisher:  Springer Nature
Publication Date:  2023-11-01
URL for Resource:  http://bishopbook.com/
This material Is: Recommended
Machine Learning Refined
ISBN:  9781107123526
Authors:  Jeremy Watt, Reza Borhani, Aggelos K.
Katsaggelos
Publisher:  Cambridge University Press
Publication Date:  2016-09-08
URL for Resource:
https://github.com/neonwatty/machine-learning-refined
This material Is: Optional
Introduction to Machine Learning, fourth edition
ISBN:  9780262358064
Authors:  Ethem Alpaydin
Publisher:  MIT Press
Publication Date:  2020-03-24
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[10.0pt] The cutoff for an `A' will be at most 90% of total score, 80% for a `B', 70% for a `C', and 60%
[10.0pt] for a `D'. Anything below 60% will an ‘F’.
1. Four homework assignments = 40%
2. One Final Project Assignment = 25%
3. Ten quizzes = 35%, the three lowest quiz grades will be dropped.
[10.0pt] All assignments, projects, and quizzes are individual assignments.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
No Late Assignments will be accepted. Late assignments are any deliverables after
the established deadline.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Course Modules, Associated Assignments, and Due Dates.
Table of Module Topics, Assignment Due Dates, and Module Quiz Due Dates
Topic
Homework/Project Due
Date
Quiz Due Date
Introduction and Math
Review
--
Quiz 1 - Friday, Jan. 16
Linear Perceptron
--
Quiz 2 - Friday, Jan. 23
Linear Regression
--
Quiz 3 - Friday, Jan. 30
Logistic Regression,
Regularization, and
Feature Selection
Homework 1 -
Wednesday, Feb. 18
Quiz 4 - Friday, Feb. 6
Tree-based Methods
Homework 2 -
Wednesday, Mar. 4
Quiz 5 - Friday, Feb. 20
Support Vector Machines  Homework 3 -
Wednesday, Mar. 25
Quiz 6 - Friday, Mar. 20
Neural Networks and
Deep Learning
Homework 4 -
Wednesday, Apr. 8
Quiz 7 - Friday, Apr. 3
Dimension Reduction
--
Quiz 8 - Friday, Apr. 10
Unsupervised Learning
--
Quiz 9 - Friday, Apr. 17
Advanced Topics
Project - Monday, Apr. 27   Quiz 10 - Friday, Apr. 24
All assignments are due at 11:59 pm CT (time in College Station, TX) on the date
listed unless otherwise specified. Always refer to the due date listed on Canvas.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
1.  Computer accounts: You should ask for TAMU HPRC access for implementing the
[10.0pt] assignments, if necessary
2.  Programming languages permitted: Python and must be executable on CS unix hosts
[10.0pt] or other public systems in the department lab
3.  You must have a camera that can be used by Respondus Lockdown Browser for
[10.0pt] online proctoring of quizzes.
4.  It is your responsibility to find a place to take quizzes in which the camera usage
[10.0pt] during quizzes does not result in privacy problems.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[12.0pt bold] The use of Generative AI tools is generally accepted in this class.
[12.0pt bold] Students are expected to document how the tools were used, including
[12.0pt bold] the prompts provided, and describe how they evaluated.  Engaging in the
[12.0pt] various aspects of creative pursuits (e.g., writing, coding, drawing) is critical to
[12.0pt] education in a broad sense. While AI technologies will continue shaping how
[12.0pt] we approach these creative tasks, the critical work of creativity relies on
[12.0pt] integrity, originality, and ethical conduct in regard to appropriate
[12.0pt] representation as an author or creator. Thus, submitting work with a
[12.0pt] significant percentage of AI-generated content, unless otherwise permitted,
[12.0pt] can be considered academic misconduct under Texas A&M University
[12.0pt] Student Rule 20.  Students must therefore cite the use of Generative AI
[12.0pt] tools and document what they have contributed to an assignment.