<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] ISEN 681 Syllabus
Section 600 (15399)
Seminar
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: SEM
Meeting Days: F
Start Time: 1:50PM
End Time: 2:55PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ETB 1034
Credit Hours:  1
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Joseph Geunes
Email:  geunes@tamu.edu
Office Location:  4024 ETB
Phone:  9798629114
Office Hours
N/A
Preferred Contact Method
Email
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Seminar. (1-0). Credit 1. Opportunity to present research in a professional
atmosphere; presentations are not restricted to thesis or problem research;
acquaints the student with departmental research activities and procedures in
documenting research.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
This course requires attendance only.  At most two unexcused absences are
permitted.  More than two unexcused absences will result in an unsatisfactory
grade.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Understand Industrial and Systems Engineering research trends.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
No materials are required.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
This course is S/U and grading is attendance based.  Any more than two unexcused
absences will result in an unsatisfactory (U) grade.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
A seminar is held weekly, with the speaker listed under Assignments.