<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 735 Syllabus
Section 700 (42400)
Parallel Computing
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Credit Hours:  3
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Vivek Sarin
Email:  sarin@tamu.edu
Office Location:  415 Peterson
Phone:  979-458-2214
Office Hours
MW 3:30-4:30pm, via Zoom  https://tamu.zoom.us/j/99726975773 ; or by
appointment
Preferred Contact Method
Email, include 735-DE in the subject
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Parallel Computing. (3-0). Credit 3. Overview of parallel computing technology and
programming methods; topics include multiprocessor architectures, programming
tools, parallel performance, parallel algorithms and applications of parallel
computing. Prerequisites: Graduate classification or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
This course provides a graduate level overview of parallel computing technology
and programming methods.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Graduate classification or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
The main objective of this course is to provide a comprehensive overview of parallel
computing that includes algorithms, software, and architectures, and their interplay
when developing high performance solutions to challenging large scale problems.
Upon successful completion of the course, a student:
will be able to design parallel algorithms and develop software
implementations on parallel computers;
will understand the architecture of modern parallel computing systems;
will be able to analyze the performance of parallel implementations on
various parallel platforms.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Optional
None
Notes:
Instructor will provide lecture videos, copies of lecture slides, and links to resources
on the internet on the course web site on Canvas.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Quizzes, assignments and projects will be available on the course web site on
Canvas and submissions will have to be uploaded to Canvas.
Course grade will be assigned on the basis of quizzes (40%), assignments (30%), a
minor project (10%), and a major project (20%). The following scale will be used:
A=90-100%, B=80-89%, C=70-79%, D=60-69%, F=0-59%. Scores are rounded up to
the nearest integer.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late assignments and projects are accepted with 10% penalty for each day late up
to a maximum of 3 days (e.g., a score of 80 will be reduced to 72 when submitted
within 24 hours after the deadline; it will be reduced to 64 when submitted
between 24 and 48 hours after the deadline).
Late quizzes will not be accepted.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Tentative Schedule
10-Week
Term
15-Week
Term
Topics (tentative)
1
1
Orientation, Introduction to parallel computing
2
2
Parallel algorithm design
3, 4
3, 4, 5
Programming for shared-memory
5
6, 7
Parallel architectures
6
8
Parallel algorithms I – Low level kernels; Minor
project due
6
9
Programming for distributed-memory
10-Week
Term
15-Week
Term
Topics (tentative)
7
10
Parallel algorithms II – Sorting
8, 9
11, 12, 13
Emerging parallel platforms - GPUs
10
14
Parallel algorithms III - Graph algorithms
10
15
Other computing paradigms (e.g., Map-Reduce);
Major project due