<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 410 Syllabus
Section 501 (50611)
Operating Systems
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 5:30PM
End Time: 6:45PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  EABB 106
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Riccardo Bettati
Email:  bettati@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 102B
Phone:  9798455469
Office Hours
zoom: W 4pm-5pm; in-person F 11am-12pm.
Preferred Contact Method
piazza and email
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Operating Systems. (3-0). Credit 3. Hardware/software evolution leading to
contemporary operating systems; basic operating systems concepts; methods of
operating systems design and construction including algorithms for CPU
scheduling, memory and general resource allocation, process coordination and
management; case studies of several operating systems. Prerequisites: Grade of C
or better in CSCE 313; grade of C or better in CSCE 315 or CSCE 331.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
[12.0pt] This course gives an overview of the general architecture and the most
[12.0pt] important components of modern operating systems. The student will
[12.0pt] leverage knowledge acquired in previous courses on Computer Architecture
[12.0pt] and Computer Systems to understand (and to some level implement)
[12.0pt] aspects of operating systems, such as memory management, persistent
[12.0pt] storage and file systems, threading, scheduling, and resource management
[12.0pt] in general. The student will understand fundamental approaches to
[12.0pt] virtualization and what it takes to build a distributed system. The course will
[12.0pt] cover general aspects, realization approaches, and case studies. In addition,
[12.0pt] the student will implement a simple operating system that will be able to boot
[12.0pt] and run on a bare PC.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 313; grade of C or better
in CSCE 315 or CSCE 331.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Describe and compare the role, the architecture, and the major components of
an operating system.
Describe the role and operation of exception and interrupt handling in modern
operating systems.
Implement components of a virtual memory manager for a paged system.
Evaluate and compare various forms of concurrency mechanisms.
Evaluate and compare and apply various synchronization mechanisms, both
for single-processor and multiprocessor systems.
Implement components of a threading system for a single-processor system.
Implement components of a simple device driver.
Implement components of a simple file system.
Evaluate and compare the various virtualization approaches and their effect on
system performance.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Operating System Concepts
ISBN:  978-1118063330
Authors:  Silberschatz, Galvin, Gagne
Publisher:  John Wiley & Sons, Inc
Publication Date:  2012
Edition:  9th or 10th edition.
Notes:
(Any recent edition will be fine. Reading assignments in
the course will use the chapter numberings from the 9th
and 10th edition. If you use an earlier textbook, you will
have to map the chapters to your edition.)
This material Is: Required
Operating Systems Three Easy Pieces
ISBN:  9791156007395
Authors:  Remzi H.Arpaci-Dusseau
Publication Date:  2020-03-01
Notes:
[12.0pt] This book is available for free in PDF form. It can
[12.0pt] also be purchased as hardcopy.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[12.0pt bold] The course will have a  midterm  and a  final exam  (totaling 400 points). In
[12.0pt bold] addition, there will be a series of  design and programming
[12.0pt bold] assignments  (machine problems) that will walk the students through the
[12.0pt] steps of designing and developing a simple operating system (400 points).
[12.0pt bold] Finally, there will be a set of  daily quizzes  (100 points) and a set
[12.0pt bold] of  homework assignments  (100 points).
[12.0pt] The course will be using a standard letter grading scale.
[12.0pt] Standard Letter Grading Scale:
[12.0pt] A = 90% and above
[12.0pt] B = 80% and above
[12.0pt] C = 70% and above
[12.0pt] D = 60% and above
[12.0pt] F = less than 60%
[12.0pt bold] Note  that the total score for daily quizzes and for homework assignments
[12.0pt] may not sum up to exactly 100 points each by the end of the semester, but
[12.0pt] rather be off by a few points. If this happens, we will re-weigh the total score
[12.0pt] at the end of the semester to make it sum up to 100 points. As a result, the
[12.0pt] total score as indicated by Canvas may be slightly off.
[12.0pt bold] Submission of Assignments
[12.0pt] Homework assignments and machine problems will be posted and submitted
[12.0pt] on Canvas. It is the student’s responsibility to make sure that the correct
[12.0pt] assignment is submitted to the correct place. Also, Canvas submissions may
[12.0pt bold] look completed when they actually are not.  It is the student’s
[12.0pt bold] responsibility to make sure that the submission process is completed.
[12.0pt] It is best to download the submission and to confirm that the submission
[12.0pt] stored on Canvas is the intended one.
[12.0pt bold] Under no circumstances  will the instructor team consider material that has
[12.0pt] not been part of the original submission. If a student wants to add to or
[12.0pt] correct submitted files because they noticed that the original submission was
[12.0pt] wrong or incomplete, they can do this, but this will be considered as a new
[12.0pt] submission, and any late penalty will apply. The instructor and the TA’s will
[12.0pt] not consider non-submitted material, and they will not consider the file
[12.0pt] timestamps (as opposed to submission timestamps) as indication of
[12.0pt] completion of the assignment. (Time stamps of files can be easily tampered
[12.0pt] with and will therefore not be considered.) In some special cases we will
[12.0pt] consider GitHub timestamps to reconsider machine problem submissions.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[12.0pt] Deadlines for on-line quizzes and homework assignments will be hard.
[12.0pt] (Quizzes will disappear after the due date.) Late submissions will not be
[12.0pt] accepted. Unless noted otherwise, lateness for machine problems is
[12.0pt] penalized with 1/5 of the earned points per calendar day (1/3 during 10-week
[12.0pt] summer courses). Lateness penalty starts at the deadline and is pro-rated.
[12.0pt] This means that the student will incur a penalty of approximately 0.0139
[12.0pt] percent for each minute that their submission is late (0.0231 percent during
[12.0pt bold] 10-week summer courses).  No make-up work submissions will be
[12.0pt bold] accepted.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Weekly Schedule
​Week
Day
Topic
MPs
1 (Jan
12)
Tue
Thu
Project Setup,  Intro:  What is an OS?
Architectural Support, OS Structures
Mon:
MP1 out
2 (Jan
19)
Tue
Thu
System Calls
Interrupts and Exceptions on the x86
Sun: MP1
due
3 (Jan
26)
Tue
Thu
Memory:  Memory Allocation, Address Spaces
Paging, Advanced Paging
Mon:
MP2 out
4 (Feb
2)
Tue
Thu
The TLB, Paging on the x86
Segmentation, Beyond Physical Memory, Virtual
Memory Mechanisms
Sun: MP2
due
5 (Feb
9)
Tue
Thu
Page Replacement Policies I
Page Replacement Policies II, Recursive Page Table
Lookup
Mon:
MP3 out
6 (Feb
16)
Tue
Thu
Concurrency:  Intro
Scheduling
Sun: MP3
due
7 (Feb
23)
Tue
Thu
Thread Dispatching on the x86
Kernel vs. User level Threads, Event-based
Concurrency
Mon:
MP4 out
8 (Mar
2)
Tue
Thu
Midterm Exam (in class)
Synchronization:  Introduction
9 (Mar
9)
Tue
Thu
SPRING BREAK!​
10 (Mar
16)
Tue
Thu
SW Solutions to Critical Section Problem
HW Solutions to Critical Section Problem
Mon:
MP5 out
Wed:
MP4 due
11 (Mar
23)
Tue
Thu
Concurrent Data Structures
Atomic Transactions
Sun: MP5
due
12 (Mar
30)
Tue
Thu
I/O:  Intro, I/O Management and Device Drivers,
Disks
RAID, Flash Memory
Mon:
MP6 out
​Week
Day
Topic
MPs
13 (Apr
6)
Tue
Thu
File Systems:  Intro, File Allocation
UNIX File System, UNIX Fast File System
Sun: MP6
due
14 (Apr
13)
Tue
Thu
Journaled and Log-Based File Systems
Virtualization:  Introduction
Mon:
MP7 out
15 (Apr
20)
Tue
Thu
Virtualization Mechanisms
Memory Virtualization
MP7 due on Sunday, May 3
Final Exam on May 5, 3:30pm-5:30pm
[12.0pt bold] Note:   Machine Problems  are posted on Monday morning of the week
[12.0pt] where they are listed. They are due on Sunday night of the week where they
[12.0pt bold] are listed.  MP7 is due on May 3 . In order to allow for a timely grading, the
[12.0pt bold] due date for MP7 is  hard .
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[14.0pt] Attendance Policy:
[12.0pt bold] Classroom: In-person sections  will meet during scheduled class times in
[12.0pt bold] the assigned room. For  online sections , the class work for this course will
[12.0pt] be delivered completely on-line, and students are not required to be present
[12.0pt] on campus.
[12.0pt bold] Exams dates  are scheduled at the beginning of the semester, and make-up
[12.0pt] exams are given only in extraordinary circumstances. Two such cases are:
[12.0pt bold] Medical:  If a student cannot take an exam because of medical reasons,
[12.0pt] a doctor’s note is required in order to schedule a make-up exam
[12.0pt] (See Student Rule 7 for details).
[12.0pt bold] Mandatory Interviews:  If a student has to schedule a makeup exam
[12.0pt] because of a “mandatory” interview for employment or professional or
[12.0pt bold] graduate school, she or he has to submit  a written note from the
[12.0pt bold] organizer of the interview  stating that the interview is in fact mandatory
[12.0pt] and cannot be held at a different time. This note must be submitted to the
[12.0pt bold] instructor  at least 2 weeks before  the interview, and it must contain the
[12.0pt] contact information, including email and telephone number, of the person
[12.0pt] responsible for the interview. The instructor will then contact the
[12.0pt] organizer and confirm that the interview cannot be rescheduled.
[12.0pt] The university views class attendance and participation as an individual
[12.0pt] student responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete
[12.0pt] all assignments.
[12.0pt] Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about excused
[12.0pt] absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[14.0pt bold] Academic Integrity:
[12.0pt] “An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
[12.0pt] The most important value of this course is in its power of "demystification":
[12.0pt] You will experience a number of "aha, this is how it works!" moments, which
[12.0pt] are most valuable, and enjoyed best, when you experience that discovery
[12.0pt] through your own work, rather than copying somebody else's.
[12.0pt] You are encouraged to discuss solution approaches to programming
[12.0pt] assignments. The solution that you hand in has to be your own, however.
[12.0pt] This means that you are not to use any part (code, text, figures, etc.) that
[12.0pt] has been developed by others, including AI. Spelled out, this means:
[12.0pt] For programming assignments: Do not show or make available in any
[12.0pt] form to other students either design documents or code. Do not look at or
[12.0pt] use other students’ design documents or code. Do not make use of
[12.0pt] previous years’ solutions. Do not look at or download solutions from the
[12.0pt] Internet. Do not submit or make use of AI generated solutions.
[12.0pt] For homework: Do not make your homework available to other students.
[12.0pt] Do not copy from other students’ work. Do not look at or download
[12.0pt] solutions from the Internet. Do not submit or make use of AI generated
[12.0pt] solutions.
[12.0pt] For exams: Do not use any information from sources other than the
[12.0pt] exam form and allowed cheat sheets; disallowed sources of information
[12.0pt] include the Internet, books, notes, AI tools, or other students. Do not
[12.0pt] pass any information to other students. By information we mean any
[12.0pt] information, not even the time-of-day.
[12.0pt] How do we determine that plagiarism has happened? We will delegate our
[12.0pt] decisions to code-similarity detection tools and automated plagiarism
[12.0pt] detection tools. Whenever a tool flags your submission, we will treat it as a
[12.0pt] potential violation, and we will issue a report to the Aggie Honor System
[12.0pt] Office. So, to be safe, stay away from other students’ code and other
[12.0pt] solutions that are not your own!
[12.0pt] Once an alleged violation has been reported, it is Aggie Honor Systems
[12.0pt] Office policy to not allow the student to Q-drop the course until the student is
[12.0pt] cleared of the violation.