<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 221 Syllabus
Section 511 (51406)
Data Structures and Algorithms
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:
Meeting Type: Lecture (509,510,511)
Meeting Days: MWF
Start Time: 10:20AM
End Time: 11:10AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location: ZACH 310
CSCE 221-509
Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 08:25AM
End Time: 09:15AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location: ZACH 584
CSCE 221-510
Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 09:35AM
End Time: 10:25AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location: ZACH 584
CSCE 221-511
Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 11:35AM
End Time: 12:25PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location: ZACH 584
Credit Hours:  4
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Alan Kuhnle
Email:  kuhnle@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 421 (and Zoom: https://tamu.zoom.us/my/kuhnle)
Phone:  N/A
Office Hours
Monday, 8:30-9:20am. Thursday, 9:30-10:20am.
Preferred Contact Method
email: kuhnle@tamu.edu
Webpage:  https://www.alankuhnle.com
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Data Structures and Algorithms. (3-2). Credit 4. Specification and implementation of
basic abstract data types and their associated algorithms including stacks, queues,
lists, sorting and selection, searching, graphs, and hashing; performance tradeoffs
of different implementations and asymptotic analysis of running time and memory
usage; includes the execution of student programs written in C++. Prerequisite:
Grade C or better in CSCE 120 or CSCE 121; grade of C or better in CSCE 222 or
ECEN 222, or concurrent enrollment.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade C or better in CSCE 120 or CSCE 121; grade of
C or better in CSCE 222/ECEN 222 or ECEN 222/CSCE 222, or concurrent
enrollment.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Design and implement diverse data structures that allow easy access and
manipulation of data using C++ programming language.
Apply the Big-O asymptotic notation to analyze and select an efficient
algorithm for solving a given problem with respect to runtime and memory
usage.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Data Structures and Algorithm Analysis in C++
ISBN:  9780132847377
Authors:  Mark Allen Weiss
Publisher:  Addison-Wesley
Publication Date:  2014-01-01
Edition:  4th
This material Is: Optional
LearnCpp.com
URL for Resource:  https://learncpp.com
Grading Criteria
Grading Criteria
Homework Assignments
9%
Programming Assignments
24%
Lab Activities
10%
Quizzes
12%
Exam 1
15%
Exam 2
15%
Exam 3
15%
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Grading Scale
Grading Scale
90-100
A
80–89.9
B
70–79.9
C
60–69.9
D
0–59.9
F
Your final grade will be determined based on written homework,
programming assignments, lab activities, quizzes, and exams.
The assignment handout will provide points distribution. Each programming
assignment will be graded focused on: algorithm design, usage of data
structures and/or new user-defined types and their implementation, its
correctness, tests, a report describing implemented algorithms and data
structures, and results of computational experiments.
All grade appeals must be made no later than one week after the grade
is posted.
Graded Attendance
The students lab attendance is required and will be taken on regular basis.
The lecture attendance will be taken by pop quizzes. The students are
responsible to learn all material covered in class, read the assigned text from
the textbook and do homework assignments.
2 bonus points will be added to your final score if you have a perfect lab
attendance, or 1 point if you have only one lab absence.
Make-up exams and quizzes will only be given with documented University-
approved excuses, see  University Regulations . The student  Rule 7  explains
policies and excused absences. Please discuss unusual circumstances in
advance with the instructor.
Notes about graded materials
All homework assignments will be announced in class and posted on
Canvas.  See the link to the course calendar on Canvas for deadlines.
The written part of homework assignments or programming reports, and the
Cover Page should be typed  preferably using LaTeX or LaTeX-based
apps,  for instance overleaf (an online LaTeX text editor). The homework  in
PDF format  should be submitted to   Gradescope .
All programming assignments  should be implemented in C++ , compiled
and run on a computer (preferably using Linux), and transferred to
Gradescope  for grading.
Culture assignments allow you to explore the latest developments in
Computer Science and Engineering or learn about the famous computer
scientists like Turing Award winners. The assignments should be submitted to
Canvas.
Quizzes are over material covered during the lectures and assigned reading
from the textbook.
The Instructor and/or TAs can request oral exam  to check student’s
knowledge over material covered by test, homework, or assignment.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
The programming assignments and written homeworks will be accepted  up to 1
day late with a 5% penalty. Once solutions have been discussed or handed out the
assignments will not be accepted. Please discuss unusual circumstances in advance
with the instructor. Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused
absence is not considered late work and is exempted from the late work policy. (See
Rule 7 )
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Course Tentative Schedule — Spring 2026
Module 1 — Jan 12–16 — Week 1
• Introduction to Data Structures
• Pointers, Arrays, Vectors
• Introduction to Analysis of Algorithms
Module 2 — Jan 19–23 — Week 2
MLK Day: Jan 19 (no classes)
• Complexity of Search and Sort Algorithms
• Algorithms – Best, Worst, Average Cases
Module 3 — Jan 26–30 — Week 3
• The Lower Bound Theorem
• Linear Sort Algorithms
• Stack ADT – Array Based Implementation
Module 4 — Feb 02–06 — Week 4
• Queue ADT – Array-based Implementation
• Amortized Analysis
• Stack and Queue Applications; Parser
Module 5 — Feb 09–13 — Week 5
• Linked Lists (Stack and Queue based)
• Dequeues
• Recursive Algorithms
•  Exam 1: Feb 09
Module 6 — Feb 16–20 — Week 6
• Analysis of Divide-and-Conquer Algorithms
• Iterating and Master Methods
Module 7 — Feb 23–27 — Week 7
• Binary Search Trees
• AVL Trees
• Red-Black Trees
Module 8 — Mar 02–06 — Week 8
• 2–4 Trees
• Skip Lists
Module 9 — Mar 16–20 — Week 10
Spring Break: Mar 09–13 (no classes)
• Hashing
• Priority Queues
• Heap
• Exam 2: Mar 18
Module 10 — Mar 23–27 — Week 11
• Huffman Trees
• Graphs
• BFS and DFS
Module 11 — Mar 30–Apr 03 — Week 12
• Digraph Algorithms
• Reading Day: Apr 03 (no classes)
Module 12 — Apr 06–10 — Week 13
• Shortest Path Algorithms
• Dijkstra Algorithms
Module 13 — Apr 13–17 — Week 14
• Minimum Spanning Trees
• Prim's Algorithm
• Q-Drop Deadline: Apr 14
Module 14 — Apr 20–24 — Week 15
• Disjoint Set ADT
Module 15 — Apr 27–29 — Week 16
• Kruskal Algorithm
• Last Day of Classes: Apr 28 (Friday)
• Final Review
• Reading Day: Apr 29 (no classes)
Final Exam:  Monday, May 4, 8:00am - 10:00am.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
Learning Resources
[12.0pt] You may have noticed from the syllabus that this course focuses on
[12.0pt] obtaining a computer science background and developing C++
[12.0pt] programming skills. Programming is not something you can learn
[12.0pt] overnight by reading a textbook or lecture notes; it requires a lot of
[12.0pt] practice. The TAs assigned and I are willing to help you to learn and
[12.0pt] understand the course material, and help you to master your
[12.0pt] programming skills so please  see us during our office hours . A few
[12.0pt] hints about how to succeed in this course:
[12.0pt] attend class and lab meetings regularly
[12.0pt] read lecture notes and related material in the textbook, and feel
[12.0pt] free to ask questions
[12.0pt] study for quizzes and tests
[12.0pt] retype (do not copy & paste) and implement in C++
[12.0pt] examples  from the lecture notes and textbook
[12.0pt] complete all labs and projects
[12.0pt] if you have any course related questions please visit us during
[12.0pt] our office hours
[12.0pt] use the online Campuswire to ask questions and participate in
[12.0pt] discussions
[12.0pt] In general, Computer Science is not an easy subject but it will pay off
[12.0pt] after graduation.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
This course assumes that all work submitted by students will be generated by the
students themselves, although discussion with TAs, PTs and Instructor is allowed.
Students should not have another person/entity do the writing of any portion of an
assignment for them, which includes hiring a person or a company to write
assignments and/or using artificial intelligence tools like ChatGPT.