<!-- body_font:13.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 120 Syllabus
[11.0pt] Section 508 (50472)
[11.0pt] Program Design and Concepts
[11.0pt] Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
[11.0pt] Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
[11.0pt] Meeting Days: MW
[11.0pt] Start Time: 4:10PM
[11.0pt] End Time: 5:25PM
[11.0pt] Start Date: 01/12/2026
[11.0pt] End Date: 05/05/2026
[11.0pt] Meeting Location:  ZACH 350
[11.0pt] Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
[11.0pt] Meeting Days: W
[11.0pt] Start Time: 10:20AM
[11.0pt] End Time: 11:10AM
[11.0pt] Start Date: 01/12/2026
[11.0pt] End Date: 05/05/2026
[11.0pt] Meeting Location:  ZACH 584
[11.0pt] Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
[11.0pt] Amit Merchant
[11.0pt] Email:  amit.merchant@tamu.edu
[11.0pt] Office Location:  PETR112
[11.0pt] Phone:  979-458-6817
[11.0pt] Office Hours
[11.0pt] Fri 11-12, 2-3 pm
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
[11.0pt] Program Design and Concepts. (3-1). Credit 3. Extension of prior programming
[11.0pt] knowledge and creation of computer programs that solve problems; use of the C++
[11.0pt] language; application of computational thinking to enhance problem solving;
[11.0pt] analysis of, design of and implementation of computer programs; use of basic and
[11.0pt] aggregate data types to develop functional and object oriented solutions;
[11.0pt] development of classes that use dynamic memory and avoid memory leaks; study
[11.0pt] of error handling strategies to develop more secure and robust programs.
[11.0pt] Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in ENGR 102, CSCE 110, CSCE 111, CSCE 206 or
[11.0pt] PHYS 150.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
[11.0pt] Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in ENGR 102, CSCE 110,
[11.0pt] CSCE 111, CSCE 206 or PHYS 150.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, you will be able to:
Develop  and apply algorithmic reasoning to solve complex
problems.
Explain
common programming concepts including abstraction,
information hiding, object-oriented decomposition, and
recursion,
control structures including sequence, selection, iteration,
and function invocation, and
data types including arrays, vectors, linked lists, structs, and
classes.
Analyze  a computing problem,  evaluate  different programming
design choices, and  develop  a program to solve the problem.
Write  documented code that follows common code readability
practices and uses strategies to reduce and address errors.
Analyze  code with debugging tools to find and fix errors.
Contrast  different approaches to handling memory and  write
programs that avoid memory leaks and unintended memory side
effects.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
[11.0pt] None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
[11.0pt] This material Is: Required
[11.0pt] Learn C++ (Online Textbook)
[11.0pt] URL for Resource:  https://www.learncpp.com/
[16.0pt] Additional Instructional Materials
[11.0pt] This Material is: Required
[11.0pt] Computer (Preferably with Camera)
[11.0pt] Notes:
[11.0pt] Notes:
[11.0pt] You must have your own computer for consuming online content that fulfills
[11.0pt] the  Texas A&M Computer Requirements .
[11.0pt] You will have to install software on it. We will provide links to software you can
[11.0pt] install for the course and procedures for setting things up.
[11.0pt] Many office hours are provided online so having a camera helps you utilize
[11.0pt] those resources.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Grades will be assigned according to the following scale:
Grading Scale
Rounded % total
Letter Grade
100 - 90
A
<90 and  ≥  80
B
<80 and  ≥  70
C
<70 and  ≥  60
D
<60
F
These grades represent varying degrees of achievement (see
the  university's grading system ): A = excellent, B = good, C =
satisfactory, D = passing, F = failing.
If you want to challenge any grading, you must do so within one week
of when the grade is published.
We reserve the right to audit the grades for any assignments
submitted to this course. During the audit process, we can decrease or
increase your score. This could result in lowering the score of already
released grades.
Homework (20%)
Homework assignments are completed individually outside of class
and submitted weekly.
You may discuss with other students in the course.
You may not discuss with students not taking the course.
If you discuss, you must clearly identify who you discussed
with in your code submission.
You should not copy code from another student and you
should not provide your code to another student; each of
you must write your own code independently.
All detected plagiarism, cheating, complicity, and AI use will be
reported to the  Aggie Honor System Office . Examples include, but
are not limited to:
Writing code with AI tools such as ChatGPT or Copilot.
This includes not just copy-pasting code from an AI,
but also asking AI to explain the prompt or for help
debugging.
You should not use AI in any capacity for the
homework assignments in this course.
Previously used code from Chegg or similar tutoring
websites; using such resources is not allowed.
Submitting code based on a solution or on starting code
from such a resource is considered plagiarism.
For resources that have not been explicitly allowed by the
course, check with your instructor or TA first before using
them.
Some homework assignments will include extra credit. However,
your homework average will be capped at a maximum of 100%.
Your course homework score is the average of your homework
scores.
You may resubmit redemption versions of the homework
through the last day of classes.
Homework scores will be the maximum between the original
homework score OR the average of the original homework score
and the redemption homework score.
Labwork (10%)
Labwork activities are designed to help you better understand
concepts that students traditionally struggle with or are integral to
know before doing homework.
You must work collaboratively in person with other students
during your lab session.
Even though you will work collaboratively, you will submit
individually.
To get completion credit you must:
Fulfill what is required in the lab prompt for completion of
that particular labwork.
Attend the lab session in person, submit documentation for
an excused absence, or be one of two free absences that do
not require documentation.
Your course labwork score is the average of lab completion credits.
Midterm Exams (36%)
The average of your midterm exam grades with the lowest midterm
exam grade dropped. Midterm exams are paper-only (no computers
allowed) and taken during your lab session.
Final Exam (24%)
Cumulative, paper-only (no computers allowed) and taken in your
lecture room during your lecture exam time set by the registrar.
Readings (5%)
Your course reading score is the average of your weekly Perusall
reading assignment scores plus 15 percentage points to a maximum
of 100 percent. This allows you to miss some reading assignments
without negatively impacting your score. For example, a friend has a
personal crisis, and you choose to console them instead of doing
some Perusall reading assignments. You do not have to ask the
instructor for special consideration since it is built into the course.
Class Engagement (5%)
Your instructor will give you activities that can include quizzes and
“check-ins” to assess your participation with class materials.
Your class engagement score is the score determined by your
instructor plus 15 percentage points to a maximum of 100 percent.
This allows you to miss some class engagement without negatively
impacting your score. For example, you had a flat tire on the way to
campus that caused you to miss an engagement activity in class. You
do not have to ask the instructor for special consideration since it is
built into the course.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
[11.0pt] Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
[11.0pt] considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
It is  your  responsibility to keep up with the class, even when
unexpected events interfere.
See the Course Specific Makeup Work Policy for details on excused
absence documentation and exam make ups.
Homework Late Work
You have up to 10 late days you can distribute among all homework
assignments with a maximum of 4 days on a single homework.
To get credit for late submissions, you must submit your late
homework assignments to the redemption version of the
homework.
You must submit the "Late Homework Days Request ” form
under “Student Resources” in Canvas  to have a redemption score
used in place of your original submission.
You should complete any homework before submitting late
day requests.
For late homework due to an excused absence, see the Course
Specific Make Up Work Policy section of the syllabus for
submitting excused absence documentation.
You still must submit to the redemption version of the
assignment.
When the excused absence documentation is processed,
the highest score submitted to the redemption by the
extended due date will be used as your homework score.
You may request additional days beyond an excused
absence by submitting the form for “Late Homework Days
Request” under “Student Resources” in Canvas.
Note:  The autograding system will give you the maximum score you
earn. This allows you to keep credit for a passing version even if you
“break” your code while trying to pass more test cases which
commonly happens when trying to improve your score. We want you
to improve your score and not be scared about lowering your score.
Note:  Network congestion frequently increases close to deadlines. So,
waiting to submit until the last minute can easily lead to it becoming a
late submission.  We suggest finishing an assignment several hours
in advance to ensure it is on time.  You should also submit
periodically as you develop your solution to get feedback from the
autograding system. However, you should focus on debugging locally
rather than submitting to the autograder and using it as a debugging
tool.
Labwork Late Work
Labwork will be accepted through the end of the day following your lab
session. For labs missed due to excused absences, see the Course
Specific Makeup Work Policy.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Topics and Midterm Exam Schedule
The course schedule is tentative and subject to change.
Topic and Midterm Exam Schedule
Week   Topics
Exams
1
What you (should) already know, but in C++
2
Vectors and Strings
3
Vectors and Strings; Errors and
Debugging;  Object-Oriented Concepts
4
Object-Oriented Concepts; Design and Testing
5
Exceptions; Input/Output Streams
Exam 1
6
Input/Output Streams
7
Functions – Pass by Reference; Implementing
Classes
8
Operator Overloading
Week   Topics
Exams
9
Dynamic Memory; C-style Arrays
10
Dynamic Arrays
Exam 2
11
Classes with Dynamic Memory
12
Classes with Dynamic Memory
13
Linked Lists
Exam 3
14
Inheritance and Polymorphism
15
Recursion
Final Exam Schedule
The final exam schedule is  set by the university .
Final Exam Times and Locations
Sections
Instructor
Exam Date / Time
Location
200
Thomas
May 4 (M) 3:30 PM -
5:30 PM
ZACH 350
250
Tran
May 1 (F) 8:00 AM -
10:00 AM
MAIN 212
500-502
Beideman
May 4 (M) 10:30 AM -
12:30 PM
ZACH 310
503-505
Beideman
May 1 (F) 3:30 PM -
5:30 PM
ZACH 310
506-508
Merchant
May 1 (F) 3:30 PM -
5:30 PM
ZACH 350
509-510
Thomas
May 4 (M) 3:30 PM -
5:30 PM
ZACH 350
511-513
Ritchey
May 4 (M) 10:30 AM -
12:30 PM
ZACH 244
514-516
Ritchey
May 1 (F) 3:30 PM -
5:30 PM
ZACH 244
Sections
Instructor
Exam Date / Time
Location
517-519
Leyk
May 1 (F) 10:30 AM -
12:30 PM
ZACH 244
520-522
Leyk
May 4 (M) 3:30 PM -
5:30 PM
ZACH 244
550
Tran
May 1 (F) 8:00 AM -
10:00 AM
MAIN 212
Labwork Due Dates
Labs are done during your lab session. While it is preferred that you
submit during your lab session, you can submit them through the end
of the following day.
Homework Due Dates
The normal pattern is every Friday:
1. Friday, January 23
2. Friday, January 30
3. Friday, February 6
4. Friday, February 20
5. Friday, February 27
6. Friday, March 6
7. Friday, March 20
8. Friday, April 3
9. Friday, April 10
10. Friday, April 24
Any extensions will be posted under Announcements on the course
Canvas homepage.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Artificial Intelligence (AI) text generators and natural language
processing tools (colloquially, chatbots - such as ChatGPT), audio,
computer code, video, and image generators  must not be used in
any way  for completing assignments or assessments in this course.
This includes not just copying code from AI tools but also using AI tools
to summarize the homework prompt, to get high level algorithmic
ideas or to debug your code. Students engaging in AI use to complete
course work will be reported and sanctioned.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Makeup Work Policy
It is  your  responsibility to keep up with the class, even when
unexpected events interfere.
Absence Documentation
Before you can do any make-up work, you must provide your
instructor with any documentation for your absence through the link
provided in Canvas. Even if you email your instructor, you must also
submit that information in Canvas.
Submit any documentation for absences by following the link
provided on the course Canvas homepage under “Student
Resources” for “Absence Documentation Submission.” An email
to your instructor is not sufficient.
Note that documentation can be a typed out reasoning that is
exactly what students email professors when they’re not sure if it
is excused. Submit to the link rather than sending the email.
Exam Make Up
You may only make up exams missed due to an excused absence.
Note that if advanced notice is not feasible, you have two business
days to provide notification.
A zero will be assigned for exams due to an unexcused absence.
Documentation must be submitted prior to making up for a missed
exam.
If you miss an exam due to an excused absence, you must take the
make up exam on the designated date and time:
Exam 1 Make Up: Monday, Feb 16 at 7:30 PM in PETR 120
Exam 2 Make Up: Monday, Mar 30 at 7:30 PM in PETR 120
Exam 3 Make Up: Monday, Apr 20 at 7:30 PM in PETR 120
If you have problems with these times, discuss options with your
instructor.
Readings and Engagement
Readings and engagement are about what you are doing to keep up in
the course, so they cannot be made up long after the fact. However,
excused absences will extend due dates for readings and engagement
according to the specific instructor’s engagement activities.
Homework
Late and make up homework is addressed in the Course Specific Late
Work Policy section.
Labwork
You should always complete labwork, even if you will not receive credit
since it will help with upcoming homework assignments and exams.
Part of your labwork completion credit is attending the lab session.
If you have a valid reason to miss a lab session:
Complete the lab activity as soon as possible.
Submit the absence documentation form in Canvas to get
an excused absence for missing a lab session.
Each student will get attendance credit for  up to two absences
not covered  by an excused absence documentation submission.
As with excused absences, you must still complete the lab activity.