<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 111 Syllabus
Section 505 (50598)
Introduction to Computer Science Concepts and Programming
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 09:35AM
End Time: 10:50AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 244
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 5:45PM
End Time: 6:35PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 596
Credit Hours:  4
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Muhammad Mahmood
Email:  suleman.mahmood@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 109
Phone:  9798452741
Office Hours
See course calendar on canvas
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Introduction to Computer Science Concepts and Programming. (3-2). Credit 4.
Computation to enhance problem solving abilities; understanding how people
communicate with computers, and how computing affects society; computational
thinking; software design principles, including algorithm design, data
representation, abstraction, modularity, structured and object oriented
programming, documentation, testing, portability, and maintenance; understanding
programs’ abilities and limitations; development and execution programs.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Use a text editor to program Java code.
Use a Java compiler to produce executable software.
Identify the basic syntax and semantics of the Java programming language.
Use appropriate commenting, layout, and naming to communicate code intent
Understand the primitive data types built into the Java language.
Understand the concepts of Java classes and objects.
Understand the concepts of lifetime, scope, and the initialization mechanism of
variables.
Implement Java code branching using if or switch statements.
Program loops with while, for, and do statements.
Make use of arrays to store and process lists of data.
Assemble data and methods into classes following the software engineering
principles of encapsulation and data hiding.
Organize Java code following the software engineering principles of modularity
and abstraction.
Create Java I/O interfaces
Read, interpret, analyze, and explain introductory Java programs.
Test and evaluate introductory Java programs
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Java: The Complete Reference
ISBN:  978-1-26-506270-5
Authors:  Herbert Schildt, Dr. Danny Coward
Publisher:  McGraw Hill
Publication Date:  2024
Edition:  13
URL for Resource:  https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/java-the-
complete/9781265062705/
Notes:
Sign in using your university credentials.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[12.9pt] Grading Scale
The grading will be on an absolute scale mentioned below:
Overall Grading Scale
[10.5pt bold] Rounded Total
[10.5pt bold] Letter Grade
Total  ≥  90%
A
80%  ≤   Total  <  9 0%
B
[10.5pt] 70% ≤ Total < 80%
C
[10.5pt] 60% ≤ Total < 70%
D
[10.5pt] Total < 60%
F
[12.9pt] Component Weights
[10.5pt] The grade is calculated based on the following course components:
[10.5pt bold] Course Component Weights
[10.5pt bold] Component
[10.5pt bold] Weight
[10.5pt] Class Activities
[10.5pt] 5%
[10.5pt] Discussion Posts
[10.5pt] 5%
[10.5pt] Reading Quizzes
[10.5pt] 5%
[10.5pt] Homeworks
[10.5pt] 10%
[10.5pt] Lab Assignments
[10.5pt] 15%
[10.5pt] Exam 1
[10.5pt] 15%
[10.5pt] Exam 2
[10.5pt] 20%
[10.5pt] Final Exam
[10.5pt] 25%
[12.9pt] Component Specific Policies
Class Activities
[10.5pt] Class activities will be graded based on participation rather than correctness.
[10.5pt] They will only be available for completion during class time.
[10.5pt] In case of excused absences, the activity will be marked excused. Canvas
[10.5pt] processes excused absences by increasing the weight of the unexcused activities.
[10.5pt] Three unexcused absences are allowed during the semester. This will be
[10.5pt] processed at the end of the semester.
Lab Assignments
[10.5pt] Labs are going to be group activities where attendance is required to earn full
[10.5pt] credit.
[10.5pt] Groups will be assigned in Canvas and will be changed every 4 weeks.
[10.5pt] If you are absent from lab, you can complete the assignment individually with a
[10.5pt] 20% penalty.
[10.5pt] In case of excused absences, lab assignment can be completed individually
[10.5pt] without penalty.
[10.5pt bold] Homework
[10.5pt] Homeworks are individual assignments and must be completed.
[10.5pt] Collaboration with other students and the use of AI tools are strictly prohibited.
Exam 1
[10.5pt] At the end of the semester, Exam 1 score will be replaced by average of all three
[10.5pt] exams if the average is higher.
[10.5pt] This policy allows you to partially offset a low score.
Exam 2
[10.5pt] At the end of the semester, Exam 2 score will be replaced by average of all three
[10.5pt] exams if the average is higher.
[10.5pt] This policy allows you to partially offset a low score.
[12.9pt] Regrade Requests
If you want to challenge any grading, you must do so within one week of grade
release. Regrade period for assignments published after week 13 will be shorter
and will be announced at the time of grade release. There may be no regrading
period for the final exam.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late submissions are only allowed for Homeworks.
There will be 10% per day penalty for late submissions.
There may be no late submission period for the final homework of the
semester.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[12.9pt] Weekly Topics
[10.5pt bold] Weekly Topics
[10.5pt bold] Week
[10.5pt bold] Topic
[10.5pt] 1
[10.5pt] Course Introduction, Variables and Printing
[10.5pt] 2
[10.5pt] Numeric data types, Math library, Characters, Defining simple methods
[10.5pt] 3
[10.5pt] Strings, Formatted Output, Boolean Type and Basic Conditionals
[10.5pt] 4
[10.5pt] Multiple conditions, condition order, nested conditions, loop basics
[10.5pt] 5
[10.5pt] For Loops, Exam 1.
[10.5pt] 6
[10.5pt] Arrays and for loops. Loops patterns with arrays.
[10.5pt] 7
[10.5pt] Multi-dimensional arrays and Debugging.
[10.5pt] 8
[10.5pt] Introduction to Objects. Objects with methods.
[10.5pt] 9
[10.5pt] Spring Break
[10.5pt] 10
[10.5pt] Exam 2. Object Oriented Design, Relations between objects.
[10.5pt] 11
[10.5pt] Dynamic dispatch and access control in object-oriented programming.
[10.5pt] 12
[10.5pt] Practice with object oriented design. Exceptions. Exceptions control flow
[10.5pt] and defining exceptions.
[10.5pt] 13
[10.5pt] File handling and user interfaces for a program.
[10.5pt] 14
[10.5pt] Graphical User Interfaces (GUI)
[10.5pt] 15
[10.5pt] Graphical User Interfaces (GUI) continued
[10.5pt] 16
[10.5pt] Final Exam
[12.9pt] Homework Deadlines
Homeworks will be released on Monday. Typical deadline for the Homeworks will be
Sunday night. Any change will be announced through canvas.
[12.9pt] Lab Assignment Deadlines
[10.5pt] Lab assignments will be released at the start of your weekly lab sessions. The deadline
[10.5pt] for the lab assignment will be midnight the day after the Lab. The assignments are
[10.5pt] designed to be completed within the lab session, but the deadline allows you to seek
[10.5pt] help if you run into any problems. Any changes will be announced through canvas.
[12.9pt] Exam Dates
[10.5pt] Exam 1: Thursday, Feb 12, 2026. In class.
[10.5pt] Exam 2: Thursday, Mar 19, 2026, In class.
[10.5pt] Final Exam: April 30th, 2026, 12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m.
Final exam times are based on the  TAMU official final exam schedule . If there is an
error here, we will adhere to the TAMU official schedule.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[9.8pt] This course assumes that all work submitted by students will be generated by the students
[9.8pt] themselves. Students should not have another person/entity do the writing of any substantive
[9.8pt] portion of an assignment for them, which includes hiring a person or a company to write
[9.8pt] assignments and using artificial intelligence tools like ChatGPT.
[12.9pt] Canvas
[10.5pt] Dashboard for the entire course. This will link out to appropriate resources.
[12.9pt] Campuswire
Campuswire will be the main forum to get help with homework and lab
activities.
You will be added to the discussion forum at the start of the semester.
Whenever possible, post your questions publicly so that all students can
benefit from it. Please do not post your code and solutions in public posts.
Public posts can also be answered by other students so you should have a
shorter response time for them.
We will endorse good student responses.
You have the option to post anonymously. Your post will only be anonymous
to students. Instructors will be able to see your name and id on the posts.
Please be respectful.
Private messages can be posed to all instructors or an individual instructor.
Private messages to individual instructors are more likely to be overlooked
and should not be used. Send an email directly to the instructor.
Posts directed to instructors that would benefit the entire class and should
be visible to all students will be updated so that the post is visible by the
entire class.
[12.9pt] Google Drive
[10.5pt] Google folder will be used to share lecture notes and in-class examples. You must be
[10.5pt] logged into your TAMU Google account to access these materials or submit Google
[10.5pt] Forms. Your TAMU Google account will have to be the default account in your browser,
[10.5pt] or you can open an incognito window and log in from there. It might take up to 24 hours
[10.5pt] after registering for the class to be able to access materials in the Google shared folder.
[12.9pt] Zoom
Zoom will be used for online office hours, and meetings with instructors and teaching
assistants. Links will be provided as needed.