<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 222 Syllabus
Section 503 (58327)
Discrete Structures for Computing
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 12:45PM
End Time: 2:00PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  HRBB 124
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Hyunyoung Lee
Email:  hlee42@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 419
Phone:  979-845-2490
Office Hours
[13.0pt] See   Office   Hours   page   on   Canvas   course   homepage
Preferred Contact Method
email
Webpage:  https://people.engr.tamu.edu/hlee42/index.html
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Discrete Structures for Computing. (3-0). Credit 3. Mathematical foundations from
discrete mathematics for analyzing computer algorithms, for both correctness and
performance; introduction to models of computation, including finite state
machines and Turing machines. Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in MATH 142,
MATH 147, MATH 151, or MATH 171. Cross-listed with ECEN 222.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in MATH 142, MATH 147,
MATH 151, or MATH 171. Cross Listing: ECEN 222/CSCE 222.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Understand the basic principles of logic, proofs and sets.
Apply results from discrete mathematics to the analysis of algorithms.
Produce proofs by induction and apply counting techniques.
Explain models of computation.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Optional
Discrete Structures
ISBN:  978-3-031-73433-5 (eBook ISBN 978-3-031-
73434-2)
Authors:  Andreas Klappenecker and Hyunyoung Lee
Publisher:  Springer
Publication Date:  February 2025
Notes:
Chapters from the textbook will be posted for your
reading  for free  on the collaborative reading platform
Perusall according to the lecture schedule. You will find
the link to the Perusall site on the Canvas modules.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Two midterm exams, each 20%, and one comprehensive final exam 25%. The two
midterm exams will be taken in our classroom during the class time. The final exam
will be taken in our classroom starting at the time set by the registrar. See the
course schedule below for the exam dates and times.
Homework 20%: There will be about eight sets of problem solving homework
(approximately one homework set every 1~1.5 weeks), for which you are required
to use the LaTeX typesetting system to type your answers in (more information on
LaTeX will be available on Canvas). One lowest homework grade will be dropped.
Quizzes 9%: There will be about ten sets of quizzes. One lowest quiz grade will be
dropped.
Exercises 6%: There will be in-class exercises. One lowest exercise grade will be
dropped.
Final grades will be assigned according to this scale based on the weighted final
average:
A: 90 and above,
B: [80--90),
C: [70--80),
D: [60--70),
F: below 60
The scale may be adjusted by the instructor to reflect score variations.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late submission beyond the deadline will not be accepted in general, unless a
university-sanctioned excuse is provided ahead of time. Homework submission is
the only exception: late submission of homework beyond the deadline will incur 5%
deduction per hour late (Canvas rounds up to the hour). For example, if you submit
your work within one hour after the deadline, 5% of your grade will be deducted. If
you submit your work 2 hours and 2 minutes after the deadline, then your grade
will be deducted by 15%.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Exam 1: Thursday, 2/12 in our classroom during our class time (for 60 minutes)
Exam 2: Thursday, 3/26 in our classroom during our class time (for 60 minutes)
Final Exam: Tuesday, 5/5, starting at 8:00 AM in our classroom (for 90 minutes)
(Tentative schedule; see Canvas Modules for more details)
Week
#
Class Dates
Topics
Reading
1
1/13, 1/15
Introduction; Knight's Tour
Ch. 1
2
1/20, 1/22
Mathematical Arguments
Ch. 2
3
1/27, 1/29
Sets, Relations, and Functions
Ch. 3
4
2/3, 2/5
Floor and Ceiling Functions; Equivalence
Relations
Chs. 7, 5
Week
#
Class Dates
Topics
Reading
5
2/10, 2/12
Partial Orders; Midterm 1 review; Exam 1
Ch. 6
6
2/17, 2/19
Proof by Induction
Ch. 4
7
2/24, 2/26
Proof by Induction (Cont.)
Ch. 4
8
3/3, 3/5
Asymptotic Analysis
Ch. 10
9
(3/9-3/13)
Spring break. No classes.
10
3/17, 3/19
Run-time Complexity of Algorithms; Counting  Chs. 10,
11
11
3/24, 3/26
Counting (Cont.); Midterm 2 review; Exam 2
Ch. 11
12
3/31, 4/2
Generating Functions
Ch. 12
13
4/7, 4/9
Recurrence Relations
Ch. 13
14
4/14, 4/16
Recurrence Relations (Cont.); Models of
Computation
Chs. 13,
17
15
4/21, 4/23*
Models of Computation (Cont.); Final review
Ch. 17
(*) Our last class
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
Course Conduct and Academic Integrity : Each assignment will be done
individually. Note the following acceptable/unacceptable collaborations.
Acceptable collaboration includes: (1) discussing the assigned problems to
understand their meaning or (2) discussing possible approaches to assigned
problems. However, you must explicitly acknowledge any help received from
someone and reference every source you use, whether it be a person, a book, a
paper, a solution set, a web page or whatever.
Unacceptable collaboration includes: (1) copying (verbatim use) of someone else's
solution including AI, physical papers or computer files including program files,
either wholly or in part, however you have access to them, (2) submission of
solutions that are jointly authored, or authored either wholly or in part by other
individual including AI, or (3) providing physical papers or computer files including
program files of your or third-party solutions to other individuals or posting them
on any Internet media.
In general, you may discuss the strategy and approach to solutions with others, but
you must construct and write up all final answers in your own words by
yourself , and you must not share the final product in any way even after the
deadline has passed and even after the course is over.
Make sure that all of your files are properly secured since you may be responsible if
someone copies your files.
Should questions arise during the course of working on a problem, immediately
contact the instructor by email or by office hour visit.
On all assignments and examinations at Texas A&M University, the following Honor
Pledge shall be preprinted and signed by the student: ``On my honor, as an Aggie, I
have neither given nor received unauthorized aid on this academic work.''
Submitting any work online via the student's TAMU account assumes that the
student signed the above statement electronically.
Attendance and Make-up Policy :  Class attendance and course participation
is  mandatory . If students miss class, it is their responsibility to catch up with the
materials and announcements.
Medical reasons or other extenuating conditions beyond the control of the student
must be properly documented. Any make-up work must be completed before the
solutions are discussed or posted or the graded results become available to the
students, whichever occurs first. Discuss unusual circumstances  in advance  with the
instructor when possible. For more information, see  https://student-
rules.tamu.edu/rule07 .
Submission of Work Policy : All homework assignments must be submitted
electronically using the submission link set up by the instructor on the Canvas
course page by the due date and time specified for each assignment.  E-mail
submissions will not be accepted; they will be ignored without notice .
Regrading Policy : A student can request regrading of any graded material if the
student believes that the points assigned are inconsistent with the quality and
merits of the submitted work. To request regrading the student needs to follow the
guidelines below.
Regrading requests must be submitted to the instructor or using the regrade
request directly on Gradescope if the grading is done on Gradescope, within
one week (unless otherwise specified) after the graded results have been
released to the student. After this time limit no regrading requests will be
honored.
Regrading requests must be in a written form using the regrade request on
Gradescope or via e-mail, accompanied by a reasonable amount of specific
justification and documentation. Make sure that you receive the confirmation
response from the instructor or the TA.
Course Copyright Statement : All materials used in this course are copyrighted.
These materials include but are not limited to the syllabi, quizzes, exams, homework
problems, solutions provided by the instructor, textbook chapters on Perusall,
handouts, and course videos, etc. Because these materials are copyrighted, you do
not have the right to copy or distribute these materials, unless permission is
explicitly granted by the instructor.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[14.0pt] Any use of AI is strictly prohibited in this course.
[12.0pt] Hours: 24/7
[12.0pt] Phone: (979) 845-8300
[12.0pt] Email:  helpdesk@tamu.edu
[12.0pt] Call/Chat/Email/visit:  https://it.tamu.edu/help
[12.0pt] Hours: 24/7/365
[12.0pt] Phone: (877) 354-4821
[12.0pt] Email:  support@instructure.com
[12.0pt] Support is available by clicking the Help button at the far left in the Canvas
[12.0pt] global navigation menu.
[12.0pt] Canvas Resources are also linked on the home page of every Canvas course.