<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 633 Syllabus
Section 601 (58706)
Machine Learning
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MWF
Start Time: 1:50PM
End Time: 2:40PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  EABB 106
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Bobak Mortazavi
Email:  bobakm+csce633@tamu.edu
Office Location:  308 PETR
Phone:  979.458.2642
Office Hours
M 3-4 PM or by Appointment
Preferred Contact Method
e-mail or canvas message
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Machine Learning. (3-0). Credit 3. Machine learning is the study of self-modifying
computer systems that can acquire new knowledge and improve their own
performance; survey machine learning techniques, which include induction from
examples, conceptual clustering, explanation-based learning, exemplar learning and
analogy, discovery and genetic algorithms. Prerequisite: CSCE 420 or CSCE 625.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  CSCE 420 or CSCE 625.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of the course students are expected to be able to:
formalize the fundamental techniques and methods of machine learning:
methods, data processing, model selection, etc.
analyze and compare the strengths and weaknesses of commonly used
machine learning approaches.
evaluate the underlying mathematical relationships within and across
advanced machine learning algorithms and the paradigms of supervised and
unsupervised learning
design, implement, and apply various advanced machine learning algorithms
in a range of real-world applications.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
An Introduction to Statistical Learning
ISBN:  9783031387470
Authors:  Gareth James, Daniela Witten, Trevor Hastie,
Robert Tibshirani, Jonathan Taylor
Publisher:  Springer Nature
Publication Date:  2023-06-30
URL for Resource:  https://www.statlearning.com/
This material Is: Required
The Elements of Statistical Learning
ISBN:  9780387848587
Authors:  Trevor Hastie, Robert Tibshirani, Jerome
Friedman
Publisher:  Springer Science & Business Media
Publication Date:  2009-08-26
URL for Resource:
https://hastie.su.domains/ElemStatLearn/
This material Is: Recommended
Deep Learning
ISBN:  9783031454684
Authors:  Christopher M. Bishop, Hugh Bishop
Publisher:  Springer Nature
Publication Date:  2023-11-01
URL for Resource:  http://bishopbook.com/
This material Is: Recommended
Machine Learning Refined
ISBN:  9781107123526
Authors:  Jeremy Watt, Reza Borhani, Aggelos K.
Katsaggelos
Publisher:  Cambridge University Press
Publication Date:  2016-09-08
URL for Resource:
https://github.com/neonwatty/machine-learning-refined
This material Is: Optional
Introduction to Machine Learning, fourth edition
ISBN:  9780262358064
Authors:  Ethem Alpaydin
Publisher:  MIT Press
Publication Date:  2020-03-24
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[10.0pt] The cutoff for an `A' will be at most 90% of total score, 80% for a `B', 70% for a `C', and 60%
[10.0pt] for a `D'. Anything below 60% will an ‘F’.
1.  Five homework assignments = 25%
2.  One Final Project Assignment = 25%
3.  Two Midterm Examinations = 50%
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
No Late Assignments will be accepted. Late assignments are any deliverables after
the established deadline.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Course Modules, Assignment Due Dates, and Exam Dates
Module
Assignment Due Dates   Exam Dates
Introduction and
Measurements
Linear Models
Logistic Regression &
Regularization
Homework 1 - Due Wed.
Feb. 18
Decision Tree-Based
Models
Homework 2 - Due Wed.
Mar. 4
Support Vector Machines  Homework 3 - Due Wed.
Mar. 18
Midterm 1 - Wed. Mar 18
Neural Networks and
Deep Learning
Homework 4 - Due Wed.
Apr. 1
Dimension Reduction
and Unsupervised
Learning
Homework 5 - Due Wed.
Apr 15
Special Topics
Midterm 2 - Fri. Apr. 24
Final Project - Due Mon.
May 4
All assignments are due at 11:59 pm CT (time in College Station, TX) on the date
listed unless otherwise specified. Always refer to the due date listed on Canvas.
Exams will be in class at the designated class time and location.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
1.  Computer accounts: You should ask for TAMU HPRC access for implementing the
[10.0pt] assignments, if necessary
2.  Programming languages permitted: Python and must be executable on CS unix hosts
[10.0pt] or other public systems in the department lab
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[12.0pt bold] The use of Generative AI tools is generally accepted in this class.
[12.0pt bold] Students are expected to document how the tools were used, including
[12.0pt bold] the prompts provided, and describe how they evaluated.  Engaging in the
[12.0pt] various aspects of creative pursuits (e.g., writing, coding, drawing) is critical to
[12.0pt] education in a broad sense. While AI technologies will continue shaping how
[12.0pt] we approach these creative tasks, the critical work of creativity relies on
[12.0pt] integrity, originality, and ethical conduct in regard to appropriate
[12.0pt] representation as an author or creator. Thus, submitting work with a
[12.0pt] significant percentage of AI-generated content, unless otherwise permitted,
[12.0pt] can be considered academic misconduct under Texas A&M University
[12.0pt] Student Rule 20.  Students must therefore cite the use of Generative AI
[12.0pt] tools and document what they have contributed to an assignment.