<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 704 Syllabus
Section 600 (58431)
Data Analytics for Cybersecurity
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MWF
Start Time: 08:00AM
End Time: 08:50AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  HRBB 113
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Zhiyuan Yu
Email:  zhiyuanyu@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 323
Phone:  979-845-5464
Office Hours
[13.0pt] Monday after class, 9 AM - 10 AM
Preferred Contact Method
Email
Webpage:  https://zhiyuanyu.org/
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Data Analytics for Cybersecurity. (3-0). Credit 3. Introduction to the theoretical
foundations, algorithms and methods of data analytics for cybersecurity; societally-
critical topic with impacts across computing systems and networks, social and web-
based communities, industrial control systems and personal devices, among many
others; study and application of data analytics including cluster analysis, supervised
machine learning, anomaly detection and visualization; addresses a suite of
cybersecurity topics including cyber attacks, anomaly detection, vulnerability
analysis, strategic manipulation and propaganda. Prerequisites: Graduate
classification. Cross-listed with CYBR 604.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Graduate classification. Cross Listing:
CYBR 604/CSCE 704.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Define and explain the key concepts and models relevant to data analytics for
cybersecurity, including anomaly detection, data-driven vulnerability analysis,
and supervised machine learning.
Design, implement, and evaluate the core algorithms underlying an end-to-
end data analytics for cybersecurity workflow, including the experimental
design, data collection, mining, analysis, and presentation of information
derived from large datasets.
Apply "best practices" in data analytics for cybersecurity, including facility with
modern tools.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
A variety of scholarly papers, articles, and other resources.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[13.0pt] The grading scale will be:
[13.0pt] A: grade>=90.0
[13.0pt] B: 80.0<=grade<90.0
[13.0pt] C: 70.0<=grade<80.0
[13.0pt] D: 60.0<=grade<70.0
[13.0pt] F: grade<60
[13.0pt] The overall grade will be determined as follows:
[13.0pt] Attendance 10%
[13.0pt] Homework 20%
[13.0pt] Midterm Exam 20%
[13.0pt] Final Project Presentation 20%
[13.0pt] Final Project Writeup 30%
[13.0pt] Homework : There will be 4 individual programming-based
[13.0pt] homeworks, each tackling a problem in data analytics for cybersecurity
[13.0pt] (e.g., anomaly detection in a large dataset of credit card transactions).
[13.0pt] Homeworks will be in Python.
[13.0pt] Final Project : For the project, students will work in teams of ~4 on a
[13.0pt] cybersecurity problem that demonstrates the students’ facility with
[13.0pt] data analytics. At the end of the semester, teams will deliver relevant
[13.0pt] code artifacts, a paper, and presentation slides summarizing the
[13.0pt] project work.
[13.0pt] Exams : The exam is closed-book. Students are allowed to bring one
[13.0pt] standard 8.5" by 11" piece of paper with any notes deemed
[13.0pt] appropriate or significant (front and back).
[13.0pt] Class Participation : Attendance in class and participation in the
[13.0pt] discussion are both important to success in the course. Students are
[13.0pt] expected to attend class, ask questions, engage with the material, and
[13.0pt] participate actively in the course discussions.
[13.0pt] Grades for Stacked Course (UG/GR) :
[13.0pt] CSCE 704: Your research goal should be advancing the body of
[13.0pt] knowledge by implementing data analysis — something that
[13.0pt] might be suitable for a conference publication.
[13.0pt] CSCE 439: Your research goal could be advancing the body of
[13.0pt] knowledge or attempting to reproduce the results of others. If
[13.0pt] the latter, it is not sufficient to simply run someone else’s code;
[13.0pt] you need to show that you have implemented a data analysis
[13.0pt] yourself.
[13.0pt] The final project will be graded with these goals in mind.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[13.0pt] For the homework assignments, you have a total of 5 late days that
[13.0pt] you can use during the semester. However, a single assignment can be
[13.0pt] submitted up to 3 days late only, so we can post solutions in a timely
[13.0pt] fashion. For the purposes of the class, a late day is an indivisible 24-
[13.0pt] hour unit. Once you exhaust your 5 late days, we will not accept any
[13.0pt] late submissions. Work submitted late because of an excused absence
[13.0pt] is not counted toward the allocation of late days, but may not be
[13.0pt] combined with late days to extend past the 3 day total.
[13.0pt] Missed exams will only be rescheduled for excused absences. If
[13.0pt] advanced notice is not feasible, you have two working days to provide
[13.0pt] me notification (see Texas A&M student rule 7), otherwise a zero will
[13.0pt] be given. A zero will be assigned for exams due to an unexcused
[13.0pt] absence. Documentation must be submitted prior to taking a missed
[13.0pt] exam.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Class Schedule
Week
Topics
Assignment Due
1
Introduction : Class Overview; Brief
Introduction of Security; How to Read
Security Papers
2
Fundamentals of ML Analytics : AI History;
Machine Learning Review — Algorithms
3
Fundamentals of ML Analytics : Machine
Learning Review — Metrics; Machine
Learning Review — Python; Neural Networks;
Homework #1 —
2/1/2026
4
Fundamentals of ML Analytics :
Convolutional Neural Networks; Generative AI
5
Anomaly Detection : Basics of Anomaly
Detection; Anomaly Detection in Practice;
Intrusion Detection
Homework #2 —
2/15/2026
6
Software Threats : Malware Detection;
Finding and Fixing Code Vulnerabilities
Online Fraud : Phishing Detection
7
Online Fraud : Fraud Detection; DeepFake
Homework #3 —
2/29/2026
Week
Topics
Assignment Due
8
Midterm Review; Midterm Exam
Midterm Exam —
3/4/2026
9
No class — Spring Break
10
Network Threats : Social Network Security;
Dark Web
11
Network Threats : Strategic Manipulation,
Propaganda, and Fake News
Insider Threats : Insider Threat
Fundamentals
Homework #4 —
3/29/2026
12
Insider Threats : Insider Analytics: Behavioral
and Beyond;
Adaptive Attackers : Evasion Attacks
13
Adaptive Attackers : Poisoning Attacks;
Backdoor Attacks; Defending Adversarial
Examples
14
Adaptive Attackers : LLM Jailbreaking; LLM
Prompt Injection; In-class Practice of LLM
Jailbreaking
No submission required
if attending the class in
person
15
Finals : Final Project Presentations
Presentation Slides —
4/24/2026
—
Project Writeup —
5/8/2026;
(final grades released by
5/11/2026)
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Writing : Use of AI tools, including ChatGPT, is permitted in this course for students
who wish to use them. To adhere to our scholarly values, students must cite any AI-
generated material that informed their work (this includes in-text citations and/or
use of quotations, and in their reference list). Using an AI tool to generate content
without proper attribution qualifies as academic dishonesty. See
https://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/qanda/data/faq/topics/Documentation/faq0
422.html  for information on how to properly cite AI tools.
(adapted from  https://ai.tamu.edu/_files/_documents/tamu-cte-genai-syllabus-
statement-considerations.pdf )
Computer Code : In principle, you may submit AI-generated code, or code that is
based on or derived from AI-generated code, as long as this use is properly
documented in the comments: you need to include the prompt and the significant
parts of the response. AI tools may help you avoid syntax errors, but there is no
guarantee that the generated code is correct. It is your responsibility to identify
errors in program logic through comprehensive, documented testing. Moreover,
generated code, even if syntactically correct, may have significant scope for
improvement, in particular regarding separation of concerns and avoiding
repetitions. The submission itself must meet our standards of attribution and
validation.
(from Boris Steipe (2023) “Syllabus Resources”. The Sentient Syllabus
Project  http://sentientsyllabus.org/ .)