<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 421 Syllabus
Section 500 (37723)
Machine Learning
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MWF
Start Time: 11:30AM
End Time: 12:20PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  EABB 106
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Bobak Mortazavi
Email:  bobakm+csce421@tamu.edu
Office Location:  308 PETR
Phone:  979.458.2642
Office Hours
M 3-4
Preferred Contact Method
e-mail
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Machine Learning. (3-0). Credit 3. Theoretical foundations of machine learning,
pattern recognition and generating predictive models and classifiers from data;
includes methods for supervised and unsupervised learning (decision trees, linear
discriminants, neural networks, Gaussian models, non-parametric models,
clustering, dimensionality reduction, deep learning), optimization procedures and
statistical inference. Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in MATH 304, MATH 311, or
MATH 323; Grade of C or better in STAT 211, and STAT 404 or CSCE 221, or ECEN
303, and CSCE 121 or CSCE 120. Cross-listed with ECEN 427 and STAT 421.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in MATH 304, MATH 311, or
MATH 323; Grade of C or better in STAT 211, and STAT 404 or CSCE 221, or
ECEN 303, and CSCE 121 or CSCE 120. Cross Listing: ECEN 427 and STAT 421.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
The objective of this course is to teach fundamental methods of machine learning with focus
on the theoretical foundations and practical applications. Upon completion of the course
students are expected to be able to:
[12.0pt] 1.  formalize the fundamental techniques and methods of machine learning: methods, data
processing, model selection, etc.
[12.0pt] 2.  analyze and compare the strengths and weaknesses of commonly used machine
learning approaches
[12.0pt] 3.  evaluate the underlying mathematical relationships within and across machine learning
algorithms and the paradigms of supervised and unsupervised learning
[12.0pt] 4.  design, implement, and apply various machine learning algorithms in a range of real-
world applications.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
An Introduction to Statistical Learning
ISBN:  9783031387470
Authors:  Gareth James, Daniela Witten, Trevor Hastie,
Robert Tibshirani, Jonathan Taylor
Publisher:  Springer Nature
Publication Date:  2023-06-30
URL for Resource:  https://www.statlearning.com/
This material Is: Required
The Elements of Statistical Learning
ISBN:  9780387848587
Authors:  Trevor Hastie, Robert Tibshirani, Jerome
Friedman
Publisher:  Springer Science & Business Media
Publication Date:  2009-08-26
URL for Resource:
https://hastie.su.domains/ElemStatLearn/
This material Is: Recommended
Deep Learning
ISBN:  9783031454684
Authors:  Christopher M. Bishop, Hugh Bishop
Publisher:  Springer Nature
Publication Date:  2023-11-01
URL for Resource:  http://bishopbook.com/
This material Is: Optional
Machine Learning Refined
ISBN:  9781107123526
Authors:  Jeremy Watt, Reza Borhani, Aggelos K.
Katsaggelos
Publisher:  Cambridge University Press
Publication Date:  2016-09-08
URL for Resource:
https://github.com/neonwatty/machine-learning-refined
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[10.0pt] The cutoff for an `A' will be at most 90% of total score, 80% for a `B', 70% for a `C', and 60%
[10.0pt] for a `D'. Anything below 60% will be an ‘F’.
1.  Five homework assignments = 25%
2.  One Final Project Assignment = 25%
3.  Two Midterm Examinations = 50%
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
No Late Assignments will be accepted. Late assignments are any deliverables after
the established deadline.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Course Modules, Assignment Due Dates, and Exam Dates
Module
Assignment Dates
Exam Dates
Introduction and
Measurement
Module
Assignment Dates
Exam Dates
Linear Models
Logistic Regression &
Regularization
Homework 1 - Due Wed
Feb 18
Decision Tree-Based
Models
Homework 2 - Due Wed
Mar 4
Support Vector Machines  Homework 3 - Due Wed
Mar 18
Midterm 1 - Wed Mar 18
Neural Networks & Deep
Learning
Homework 4 - Due Wed
Apr 1
Dimension Reduction &
Unsupervised Learning
Homework 5 - Due Wed
Apr 15
Special Topics
Midterm 2 - Fri Apr 24
Final Project - Due Tue
May 5
[10.5pt] All assignments are due at 11:59 pm CT (time in College Station, TX) on the date listed
[10.5pt] unless otherwise specified. Always refer to the due date listed on Canvas. Exams will be in
[10.5pt] class at the designated class time and location. Exams will be closed book, closed notes.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
1.  Computer accounts: You should ask for TAMU HPRC access for implementing the
[10.0pt] assignments, if necessary
2.  Programming languages permitted: Python and must be executable on CS unix hosts
[10.0pt] or other public systems in the department lab
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[12.0pt bold] The use of Generative AI tools is generally accepted in this class.
[12.0pt bold] Students are expected to document how the tools were used, including
[12.0pt bold] the prompts provided, and describe how they evaluated.  Engaging in the
[12.0pt] various aspects of creative pursuits (e.g., writing, coding, drawing) is critical to
[12.0pt] education in a broad sense. While AI technologies will continue shaping how
[12.0pt] we approach these creative tasks, the critical work of creativity relies on
[12.0pt] integrity, originality, and ethical conduct in regard to appropriate
[12.0pt] representation as an author or creator. Thus, submitting work with a
[12.0pt] significant percentage of AI-generated content, unless otherwise permitted,
[12.0pt] can be considered academic misconduct under Texas A&M University
[12.0pt] Student Rule 20.  Students must therefore cite the use of Generative AI
[12.0pt] tools and document what they have contributed to an assignment.