<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 442 Syllabus
Section 500 (46558)
Scientific Programming
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 09:35AM
End Time: 10:50AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  HRBB 113
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Timothy Davis
Email:  davis@tamu.edu
Office Location:  235 Peterson
Phone:  979 845 4094
Office Hours
10am-11am, Tuesdays and Thursdays
Preferred Contact Method
email, text, or cell phone (cell: 352 359 2812)
Biography
Tim Davis is a Professor of Computer Science at Texas A&M University. His primary
scholarly contribution is the creation of widely-used sparse matrix algorithms and
software (SuiteSparse), including most of the sparse solvers behind x=A\b in
MATLAB, and many other commercial packages. For example, his codes power the
semiconductor processing of all high-end semiconductor fabs.  Every Apple device
uses his solvers, and they are also an integral part of Pokemen Go (for augmented
reality).  Fellow IEEE, SIAM, ACM.
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Scientific Programming. (3-0). Credit 3. Introduction to numerical algorithms
fundamental to scientific and engineering applications of computers; elementary
discussion of error; algorithms, efficiency; polynomial approximations, quadrature
and systems of algebraic and differential equations. Prerequisites: CSCE 221 with a
grade of C or better; MATH 304 or MATH 308 or concurrent enrollment.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  CSCE 221 with a grade of C or better; MATH 304 or
MATH 308 or concurrent enrollment.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
1. Apply computational arithmetic in real-world scenarios. Understand floating-
point numbers, rounding errors, relative and absolute errors, cancellation,
and numerical instability.
2. Solve linear and nonlinear equation systems, using Gaussian elimination, LU,
QR decompositions. Understand pivoting, norms, condition numbers, and
apply iterative methods, the bisection method, Newton’s method, the secant
method.
3. Create and apply optimization techniques, based on the Golden section
search, the steepest descent method, and the Newton method, to solving
practical problems.
4. Perform data interpolation for approximation through the application of
Lagrange interpolation, Newton interpolation, Hermite interpolation, and
piecewise polynomial interpolation.
5. Apply numerical integration and differentiation, Richardson extrapolation, the
composite rule, Newton-Cotes quadrature, and Gaussian quadrature.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Scientific Computing: An Introductory Survey, Revised Second Edition
ISBN:  978-1-61197-557-4
Authors:  M. T. Heath
Publisher:  SIAM
Publication Date:  2018
Edition:  Revised 2nd Edition
URL for Resource:  https://doi.org/10.1137/1.9781611975581
Notes:
20% DISCOUNT AVAILABLE:  Go to:  https://doi.org/10.1137/1.9781611975581
Select NonMember Price(not Member Price).
At checkout enter coupon code: BKRSAD.
30% DISCOUNT for SIAM members:   If you are a SIAM student member, you can
get the Member Price discount instead (which is 30%).  Becoming a student
member of SIAM is free.
You can't use both discounts.
This material Is: Required
MATLAB
URL for Resource:  https://www.mathworks.com/academia/tah-portal/texas-am-
university-college-station-30976309.html
Notes:
You are required to have access to MATLAB. Texas A&M has a University-wide site
license, so as an A&M student, you can download it for free.
This material Is: Optional
Numerical Computing with MATLAB
URL for Resource:  https://www.mathworks.com/moler/index_ncm.html
Notes:
This book is optional (and free for download).  We will use some of the M-files from
this book, which I will provide for any given homework assignment.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Exams 60%: we will have one in-class exams during the semester, and a final exam.
Each is worth 30% each.
Homework: 40%. Homework is always due at EXACTLY 9:35 AM on a class day, so
that I can discuss the solution in class that day. So normally I cannot accept late
submissions, except with prior permission. Homework is assigned, submitted, and
graded on Canvas. Unless otherwise noted on the assignment, all homework is to
be done by yourself. You may discuss the homework with each other but you must
solve the problems yourself. When discussing with each other, pretend you are in
my office discussing it with me. I will help you understand the problem but I
wouldn't give you the solution. If you do discuss the homework with anyone, state
their name on your submission (either on the HW itself or on a note on Canvas).
You may not use AI in any way.
Grading scale (after curving of individual items, as needed):
90 or higher: A
80: B
70: C
60: D
less than 60: F
The University views class attendance as the responsibility of an individual student.
Attendance is essential to complete the course successfully. University rules related
to excused and unexcused absences are located on-line at  http://student-
rules.tamu.edu/rule07 ; In general, I do not give excused absences for interviews or
travel, but exceptions are granted on a case-by-case basis. You must ask me
beforehand, however. If you miss class because of medical reasons or for an
interview (for work or for graduate / professional school) that cannot be
rescheduled, I reserve the right to require written confirmation. For interviews or
other scheduled events, a priori confirmation is required.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
No late assignments accepted without a priori permission.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Tues, Jan 13
Thurs, Jan 15
Tues, Jan 20, hw1 due
Thurs, Jan 22
Tues, Jan 27, hw2 due
Thurs, Jan 29
Tues, Feb 3, hw3 due
Thurs, Feb 5
Tues, Feb 10, hw4 due
Thurs, Feb 12
Tues, Feb 17, hw5 due
Thurs, Feb 19
Tues, Feb 24, hw5 due
Thurs, Feb 26
Tues, Mar 3, hw6 due
Thurs, Mar 5, midterm, in class
Tues, Mar 10 (no class, Spring break)
Thurs, Mar 12 (no class, Spring break)
Tues, Mar 17
Thurs, Mar 19, hw7 due
Tues, Mar 24
Thurs, Mar 26, hw8 due
Tues, Mar 31
Thurs, Apr 2, hw9 due
Tues, Apr 7
Thurs, Apr 9, hw10 due
Tues, Apr 14
Thurs, Apr 16, hw11 due
Tues, Apr 21
Thurs, Apr 23, hw12 due
Tues, Apr 28
Thurs, Apr 30, Final Exam, 12:30pm to 2:30pm, in our regular classroom
(HRB 113)
Topics:
We will cover Chapters 1 to 8 of the textbook, but not all sections of those chapters.
Details are listed below, but these are subject to change:
1. Scientific computing:  sections 1 to 3, except skip 1.3.7 and 1.3.11 and
following
2. Linear systems: sections 1 to 5, except skip 2.4.8, 2.4.9, 2.5.2, and 2.5.3.  Also
skip the LDLT factorization (page 85)
3. Least squares: sections 1 and 2 (all).  Section 3: just the condition number.
Section 4: all.  Section 5: only 3.5.1.  Section 3.6: up to and including the
pseudo-inverse (page 139).  Section 7: all.
4. Eigenvalues:  Section 1: all except for the spectrum.  Section 2: just 4.2.1,
4.2.2, and 4.2.4 (but ignore the complex case).  Section 5: just 4.5.1 and 4.5.2.
5. Non-linear equations: Section 1: all.  Section 2: just the intermediate value
theorem for scalar functions.  Section 4: all.  Section 5: just subsections 1 to 4.
Section 5.6: just 5.6.2 (but skip quasi Newton methods)
6. Optimization:  Section 1: all.  Section 4: all (except skip 6.4.4).  Section 6.2.2.
Section 5: just 6.5.2 and 6.5.3.  We will skip Section 6, but as a side note,
Google solves this problem with their Ceres package, which relies on my
sparse solvers, to place every photo in StreetView.
7. Interpolation:  Section 1: all.  Section 3: just 7.3.1 and 7.3.2.  Section 4: just
7.4.1 and 7.4.2.
8. Integration: Section 1: all except skip Reimann sum and Riemann integrable
terms.  Section 3: only subsections 1, 5, and 6.
9. ODEs: we will cover this topic if time permits
[16.0pt] AI Statement
No use of AI is permitted in any manner.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
Attendance is expected but not logged.