<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 221 Syllabus
Section 551 (46291)
Data Structures and Algorithms
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 08:45AM
End Time: 10:00AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  CLB 114
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 12:40PM
End Time: 1:30PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  CLB 109
Credit Hours:  4
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Unal Goktas
Email:  ugoktas@tamu.edu
Office Location:  ECRB 309E (Galveston Campus)
Phone:  409-740-5515
Office Hours
[12.0pt] link to office hours page
Preferred Contact Method
Email
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Data Structures and Algorithms. (3-2). Credit 4. Specification and implementation of
basic abstract data types and their associated algorithms including stacks, queues,
lists, sorting and selection, searching, graphs, and hashing; performance tradeoffs
of different implementations and asymptotic analysis of running time and memory
usage; includes the execution of student programs written in C++. Prerequisite:
Grade C or better in CSCE 120 or CSCE 121; grade of C or better in CSCE 222 or
ECEN 222, or concurrent enrollment.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade C or better in CSCE 120 or CSCE 121; grade of
C or better in CSCE 222/ECEN 222 or ECEN 222/CSCE 222, or concurrent
enrollment.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Design and implement a variety of data structures  that support efficient
data manipulation using the C++ programming language.
[11.0pt bold] Apply Big ‑ O asymptotic notation  to analyze algorithmic efficiency and
select appropriate algorithms based on runtime and memory considerations.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Data Structures and Algorithm Analysis in C++
ISBN:  9780132847377
Authors:  Mark Allen Weiss
Publisher:  Addison-Wesley
Publication Date:  2014-01-01
[16.0pt] Additional Instructional Materials
This Material is: Optional
A free website devoted to teaching you how to program in modern C++
URL for Resource:  http://learncpp.com
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Grading Criteria and Scale
Grading Policy
Grading Criteria
Grading Scale
Homework Assignments
9%
90-100
A
Programming Assignments
24%
80-89.9
B
Lab Activities
10%
70-79.9
C
Quizzes
12%
60-69.9
D
Exam 1
15%
0-59.9
F
Exam 2
15%
Exam 3 (Final Exam)
15%
Technical Interview
Programming Tasks (Bonus)
4%
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Make-up exams and quizzes will only be given with documented University-
approved excuses, see  University Regulations . The student  Rule 07  explains
policies and excused absences.
A homework assignment will be accepted up to  1 day late with a 5%
penalty . Once solutions have been discussed or handed out the assignments
will not be accepted.
Please discuss unusual circumstances in advance with the instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Course Sechedule
Module Week
Topic
1
Jan 12 - 16
Introduction to Data Structures
Pointers, Arrays, Vectors
Introduction to Analysis of Algorithms
2
Jan 19 - 23
Complexity of Search and Sort Algorithms
Algorithms – Best, Worst, Average Cases
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day: Jan 19 (No Classes)
3
Jan 26 - 30
The Lower Bound Theorem
Linear Sort Algorithms
Stack ADT – Array Based Implementation
4
Feb 02 - 06
Queue ADT – Array-based Implementation
Amortized Analysis
Stack and Queue Applications. Parser
Module Week
Topic
5
Feb 09 - 13
Linked Lists in C++
Linked List-based Stack and Queue
Dequeues
Recursive Algorithms
Exam 1: Feb 11
6
Feb 16 - 20
Analysis of Divide-and-Conquer Algorithms
Iterating and Master Methods
7
Feb 23 - 27
Trees | Binary Search Trees
AVL Trees
Red-Black Trees
8
Mar 02 - 06
2–4 Trees
Skip Lists
Mid-semester Grades Due: Mar 02
Mar 09 - 13
Spring Break (No Classes)
9
[10.5pt] Mar 16 - 20
Hashing
Priority Queues
Heap
Exam 2: Mar 18
10
[10.5pt] Mar 16 - 20
Huffman Trees
Graphs
BFS | DFS
11
Mar 30 - Apr
03
Digraph Algorithms
Reading Day (No Classes): Apr 03
12
Apr 06 - 10
Shortest Path Algorithms
Dijkstra's Algorithm
13
[10.5pt] Apr 13 - 17
Minimum Spanning Trees
Prim's Algorithm
Q-Drop Deadline: Apr 14
14
[10.5pt] Apr 20 - 24
Disjoint sets ADT
15
[10.5pt] Apr 27 - 29
Kruskal's Algorithm
Review
Last Day of Classes: Apr 28
Redefined Day (Students Attend Friday Classes):
Apr 28
Reading Day (No Classes): Apr 29
May 1 (Friday)  Final Exam: 8:00 am-10:00 am
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
Your final grade will be determined based on written homework,
programming assignments, lab activities, quizzes, and exams.
The assignment handout will provide points distribution.
All grade appeals must be made no later than one week after the grade
is posted.
The students lab attendance is required and will be taken on regular basis. 2
bonus points will be added to your final score if you have a perfect lab
attendance, or 1 point if you have only one lab absence.
The lecture attendance will be taken by pop quizzes. The students are
responsible to learn all material covered in class, read the assigned text from
the textbook and do homework assignments.
All homework assignments will be announced in class and posted on
Canvas.  See the link to the course calendar on Canvas for deadlines.
The written part of homework assignments or programming reports, and the
Cover Page should be typed  preferably using LaTeX or LaTeX-based apps ,
for instance Overleaf (an online LaTeX text editor). The homework  in PDF
format  should be submitted to  Gradescope .
All programming assignments should be implemented in C++, compiled and
run on a computer (preferably using Linux), and transferred to Gradescope
for grading.
Quizzes are over material covered during the lectures and/or assigned
reading from the course material.
The Instructor and/or TAs  can request oral exam to check student’s
knowledge over material covered by test, homework, assignment or lecture
and lab activities.
Use Canvas to get access to the lecture notes, quizzes and tests,
assignments, and check your grades on the regular basis during the
semester.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
This course assumes that all work submitted by students will be generated by the
students themselves, although discussion with TAs, PTs and Instructor is allowed.
Students should not have another person/entity do the writing of any portion of an
assignment for them, which includes hiring a person or a company to write
assignments and/or using artificial intelligence tools like ChatGPT. ( Adapted from
University of Massachusetts Amherst )