<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 681 Syllabus
Section 600 (12644)
Seminar
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: SEM
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 12:45PM
End Time: 2:00PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  EABB 106
Credit Hours:  1
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Ricardo Gutierrez-Osuna
Email:  rgutier@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 309
Phone:  979-845-29-42
Office Hours
By apointment
Preferred Contact Method
csce-681-rgo@tamu.edu
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Seminar. Credit 0 to 1. Reports and discussion of current research and of selected
published technical articles. May not be taken for credit more than once in master's
degree program nor twice in PhD program. Prerequisite: Graduate classification.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Graduate classification.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
[12.0pt] The purpose of the course is to expose students to a broad range of current
[12.0pt] and seminal research topics in computer science and related fields. Upon
[12.0pt] completion of the course, students should be able to prepare reports and
[12.0pt] discuss research works and selected published technical articles.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[12.0pt] To pass this course, you must
[12.0pt] 1. complete the syllabus quiz on canvas with a grade of 100%, and
[12.0pt] 2. receive an average score of 80% or higher.
[12.0pt] Any course requirements completed before passing the syllabus quiz (i.e.,
[12.0pt] 100% score) available on Canvas will not be considered.
[12.0pt bold] Section 600:
[12.0pt] You are expected to
[12.0pt] attend all the lectures scheduled during the semester, and
[12.0pt] write a report for each of them
[12.0pt] Missed reports without a proper Excused Absence will receive an
[12.0pt] automatic score of zero.
[12.0pt] Reports must be typed on a Canvas quiz and require LockDown
[12.0pt] Browser to avoid use of external aids (e.g., AI writing tools).
[12.0pt] Report quizzes open at the start of each lecture (12:45pm) and close at
[12.0pt] the end of the lecture (2:00pm). We suggest you take notes during the
[12.0pt] lecture (e.g., on paper), and then polish the report after the Q&A, up
[12.0pt] until the quiz closes.
[12.0pt bold] Each report quiz will   include five sections: (1) background, (2) problem
[12.0pt bold] statement, (3) proposed solution , (4) results, and (5) critique.   Each
[12.0pt] section is worth one point. Thus, to get a score of 80% for each report,
[12.0pt] you must receive a score of at least 4 out of 5 points.
[12.0pt] You must bring your TAMU ID to the seminar so we can verify you
[12.0pt] attended the lecture.
[12.0pt] Other forms of identification (e.g., driver's license) will NOT be
[12.0pt] accepted.
[12.0pt] Please come to the seminar room 5-10 minutes early so we can
[12.0pt] scan your ID.
[12.0pt] If you arrive late (2+ minutes after the start time), you can still
[12.0pt] attend the lecture but your ID will not be scanned and your
[12.0pt] attendance will not be verified.
[12.0pt] Reports submitted without verified attendance will receive a score
[12.0pt] of zero.
[12.0pt] Section 700:
[12.0pt] You are expected to
[12.0pt] watch the recordings of all the lectures scheduled during the
[12.0pt] semester, and
[12.0pt] write a report for each of them
[12.0pt] Lecture recordings will be available on Canvas, typically within 2-4
[12.0pt] hours after the lecture ends. You will be able to watch the lecture
[12.0pt] recording at your leisure.
[12.0pt] Report quizzes will also be available on Canvas, typically within 24
[12.0pt] hours after the lecture ends.  Report quizzes require LockDown Browser
[12.0pt] and are time limited (<15 minutes), so be sure to watch the recording in
[12.0pt] advance and take notes.
[12.0pt] Report quizzes must be submitted on Canvas by the end of the week
[12.0pt] (i.e., Sunday midnight).
[12.0pt] Each report quiz will consist of a series of multiple-choice, multiple-
[12.0pt] answer questions related to the contents of the lecture.  The number of
[12.0pt] questions may vary from lecture to lecture depending on the contents of
[12.0pt] the lecture.  The value of each quiz question (i.e., number of points) will
[12.0pt] vary depending on the complexity of the question, and the total score
[12.0pt] will be normalized to a 5-point scale.
[12.0pt bold] Final grade.  Your final grade will be the statistical mean of the top 75% of the
[12.0pt] individual quiz grades, i.e., the lowest 25% of your quiz grades do not count,
[12.0pt] regardless of whether you completed them or not. This gives you a bit of
[12.0pt] flexibility: a few low quiz grades may not affect your grade, and you may miss
[12.0pt] a few unexcused lectures (e.g., you arrived late to class, your battery died,
[12.0pt] connection issues).
[12.0pt] Example: Assume we have 12 lectures during the semester (the actual
[12.0pt] number is likely to be higher). Further, assume you received the following
[12.0pt] scores on the 12 lectures: [5.0, 4.5, 4.5, 4, 4, 4, 4, 3.5, 3.0, 2.0, 0.0, 0.0].
[12.0pt] Your final score will be 4.05, which is the average of the top 75% of your
[12.0pt] grades (i.e., we dropped the lowest 3 scores.)
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[12.0pt] Late work is not accepted under any circumstances.  Please review the
[12.0pt] grading policy.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[12.0pt] The course schedule is available as a  spreadsheet .  Please review
[12.0pt] periodically as new speakers are added throughout the semester.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[12.0pt] ATTENDANCE AND ETIQUETTE (SECTION 600 ONLY)
[12.0pt] Please reserve the entire scheduled time slot, and plan to arrive at least 10
[12.0pt] minutes before the start of the talk, since we will be taking class attendance.
[12.0pt] For this purpose, you are required to have your Aggie ID card with you.
[12.0pt] During the seminar, you are expected to pay attention and refrain from
[12.0pt] activities such as doing other work, reading the newspaper, surfing the web,
[12.0pt] or sleeping. Behavior such as this gives speakers a bad impression of our
[12.0pt] graduate program and students. Students noticed exhibiting such behavior
[12.0pt] will not receive credit for attending that seminar.
[12.0pt] In some cases, the seminars will finish a few minutes early. If the speaker is
[12.0pt] not finished, or if the Q&A period is ongoing, you are expected to stay until
[12.0pt] the end of the talk.
[12.0pt] EXCUSED ABSENCES
[12.0pt] The grading criteria (we drop the bottom 25% of your report grades) avoids
[12.0pt] much of the need to request excused absences. If you want to request an
[12.0pt] excused absence, please follow these steps:
[12.0pt] Go to  Student Rule 7  to determine if your situation is covered, then
[12.0pt] Send an email to  csce-681-rgo@tamu.edu  with:
[12.0pt] A description of your situation, and
[12.0pt] Which provision within Student Rule 7 applies
[12.0pt] Supporting documentation (doctor's note, cover letter, etc.)
[12.0pt] Your request will be reviewed, and you will be notified of its
[12.0pt] approval/rejection via email
[12.0pt] Timeline for submitting excused absences : Per  Student Rule 7 , you must
[12.0pt] make the request prior to the day of absence. If this is not possible, you
[12.0pt] must provide notification by the end of the second business day after the
[12.0pt] last date of the absence, including an explanation of why advance notice
[12.0pt] could not be sent. Requests for excused absences that do not meet these
[12.0pt] guidelines will not be considered.
[12.0pt] Missed lectures with an approved excused absence will not be counted
[12.0pt] towards the final grade. Missed lectures without an approved excused
[12.0pt] absence will receive an automated score of zero.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[12.0pt] Seminar reports containing plagiarized content (including self-plagiarism or
[12.0pt] use of any machine-generated text or translation tools) will be submitted to
[12.0pt] the Aggie Honors Office, with the recommendation that the student receives
[12.0pt] an F* for the course.. Please review the TAMU guidelines for  Academic
[12.0pt] Integrity and Plagiarism .
[12.0pt] Occasionally, we find evidence of plagiarism after the reports have been
[12.0pt] graded. For example, a student may submit a report that has been
[12.0pt] plagiarized from a prior submission, or a prior report may be flagged when a
[12.0pt] new detector of AI-generated text becomes available. For these reasons, you
[12.0pt] should treat grades for seminar reports as provisional. Any prior submission
[12.0pt] that is later found to constitute a violation will be submitted to the Aggie
[12.0pt] Honors Office, with the same recommendation that the student receives an
[12.0pt bold] F* .
[12.0pt] Any information (e.g., a doctor’s note for an excused absences) that is found
[12.0pt] to have been fabricated, falsified and/or misused will be submitted to the
[12.0pt bold] Aggie Honors Office with the recommendation the student receives an  F*  for
[12.0pt] the course.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Makeup Work Policy
[12.0pt] Makeup work will not be allowed given that the grading policy provides
[12.0pt] flexibility for missed lectures and/or poor grades on certain report quizzes.