<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 411 Syllabus
Section 551 (60210)
Design and Analysis of Algorithms
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days:
Start Time: N/A
End Time: N/A
Start Date: 04/09/2026
End Date: 05/30/2026
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Robert Lightfoot
Email:  rob.light@tamu.edu
Office Location:  Arts et Métiers
Phone:  Use WhatsApp
Office Hours
As needed
Preferred Contact Method
WhatsApp   or   in   person
Unal Goktas
Email:  ugoktas@tamu.edu
Office Location:  Arts et Métiers
Phone:  Use WhatsApp
Office Hours
As needed
Preferred Contact Method
WhatsApp or in person
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Design and Analysis of Algorithms. (3-0). Credit 3. Study of computer algorithms for
numeric and non-numeric problems; design paradigms; analysis of time and space
requirements of algorithms; correctness of algorithms; NP-completeness and
undecidability of problems. Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in CSCE 221 and
CSCE 222; junior or senior classification or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
This course will meet from 9:00 - 5:30 May 11 - 13, 18 - 22, and 9-12 May 26th.
There will be breaks.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 221 and
CSCE 222/ECEN 222; junior or senior classification or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of the course, students will be able to:
Explain a variety of fundamental algorithms and algorithmic techniques
Select the most appropriate algorithm to solve a given problem
Analyze the correctness, runtime, and space complexity of an algorithm
Design new algorithms and modify existing ones using techniques discussed
in class
Recognize when a problem is likely intractable (has no efficient algorithm) and
be able to prove this by showing undecidability or NP-hardness
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Optional
Introduction to Algorithms
ISBN:  978-0-262-53305-8
Authors:  Cormen, Leiserson, Rivest, and Stein
Publisher:  MIT Press
Publication Date:  2009
Edition:  3rd
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Grade Distributions
Assignment Group
Percentages
Global Competence
3%
[11.0pt bold] Observance of the Program’s  Rules of
[11.0pt bold] Conduct
5%
Reflections
5%
Readings
5%
Exam  (Final Exam)
40%
Homework Assignments
20%
Group Mini-Project
17%
Recall Practices
2%
In-class Activities
3%
Your lowest grade in the  Homework Assignments  category will be dropped.
Your 2 lowest grades in the  Recall Practices  category will be dropped
All assignments must be submitted electronically via Canvas by the posted due
date/time. Email submissions will not be accepted.
[12.0pt] Grading Scale
The grading scale expected to be used is:
A ≥ 90% > B ≥ 80% > C ≥ 70% > D ≥ 60% > F
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Exams:  Make-up tests will only be given if the student has an excused
absence (either university-excused or instructor-excused) with supporting
documentation.
Homework and Group Mini Project:  Assignments turned in after the
posted deadline will have a penalty applied of 5% per day late. For group
assignments, the late penalty affects the grade for the entire group.
Recall Practice and In Class Activities:  These are completed in class and
thus cannot be accepted late. They may be excused if a student has an
excused absence (either university-excused or instructor-excused) with
supporting documentation.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[13.0pt] Course Schedule
There are at least 45 contact hours in this course:
35 = 5 hours per class day x 7 class days
8 = 2 or 3 hours per class day x 3 class days
2 = technical visit and reflection assignment
>0 = readings, programming assignments, & project
[11.0pt bold] Week 0: Pre-Departure
[11.0pt bold] Attend HEGP Cultural IQ on  Thu, April 9
[11.0pt bold] Attend HEGP Faculty-led Orientation on  Tue, April 14
Read CLRS Chapters 1–3 and 8.1. Perusall assignment.9
Complete the Asymptotic Analysis Readiness Quiz on Canvas.
Submit your Pre-departure Reflection on Canvas.
[11.0pt bold] Week 1 (lunch breaks are 12:00-1:30 PM)
[11.0pt bold] Mon, May 11*:  Attend class ( 9:00 AM –5:30 PM). Start Homework 1.
[11.0pt bold] Tue, May 12:  Attend class ( 9:00 AM–5:30 PM ).
[11.0pt bold] Wed, May 13*:  Attend class ( 9:00 AM–5:30 PM ). Form your project team.  Submit
[11.0pt bold] Homework 1 by 11:59PM.
[11.0pt bold] Thursday, May 14, Ascension Holiday  No Class
[11.0pt bold] Friday, May 15 - Technical Visit, TBD
[11.0pt bold] Week 2
[11.0pt bold] Mon, May 18*:   Attend class (9:00 AM–5:30 PM).   Submit Project Proposal by 09:00.
Start Homework 2.
[11.0pt bold] Tue, May 19:   Attend class (9:00 AM–5:30 PM).   Submit Homework 2 by 22:00. Submit
[11.0pt bold] Mid-program Reflection by 11:59PM.
[11.0pt bold] Wed, May 20:   Attend class (9:00 AM–5:30 PM).
[11.0pt bold] Thu, May 21*:  Attend class   (9:00 AM–5:30 PM).
[11.0pt bold] Fri, May 22:   Attend class  (9:00 AM–5:30 PM).  Present Project (1:30PM-3:30PM).
[11.0pt bold] Submit Homework 3 by 11:59PM.
[11.0pt bold] Week 3
[11.0pt bold] Mon, May 25:  Cultural visit: Verdon Gorge 9:00 - 22:00
[11.0pt bold] Tue, May 26:   Final Exam (9:00AM-12:00PM).  Attend Course Wrap-up (1:30PM-
3:30PM).
[11.0pt bold] Post-Program:  Submit Final Reflection by the deadline on Canvas.
[11.0pt bold] *  French Culture Workshop  (15:30  - 17:30)
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
Tentative Course Topics, Calendar of Activities, Major Assignment Dates
--
[12.0pt bold] Tentative Course Topics, Calendar of Activities, Major Assignment Dates
[12.0pt bold] Day
[12.0pt bold] Topic
[12.0pt bold] Required Reading
May 11
Introduction; Lower Bound
on Sorting
TBA on Canvas
May 12
Divide & Conquer
TBA on Canvas
--
May 13 AM
Dynamic Programming; DP
Practice; Project Kickoff
TBA on Canvas
May 13 PM
(no class May 14)
Greedy Algorithms;
Amortized Analysis
TBA on Canvas
May 15
Technical Visit
TBA on Canvas
May 18
Disjoint Sets; Graphs; Graph
Traversals
TBA on Canvas
May 19 AM
Shortest Paths; Randomized
Algorithms
TBA on Canvas
May 19 PM
Exam 1 (Midterm Exam);
Project Studio
TBA on Canvas
May 20
Max Flow; Complexity
Theory; Approximation
Algorithms
TBA on Canvas
May 21
NP-Completeness;
TBA on Canvas
May 22
Project Presentations
TBA on Canvas
May 26
Exam  (Final Exam); Course
wrap-up
TBA on Canvas
[16.0pt] AI Statement
This course assumes that all work submitted by students will be generated by the
students themselves. Students should not have another person or entity write any
substantive portion of an assignment for them, including hiring a person or
company to write assignments or using artificial intelligence tools like ChatGPT.
[13.0pt] Bring Your Own Device Policy
BYOD is an initiative in the College of Engineering where students are required bring their
own computing device to lecture and lab. You need to have a computing device with a
headset, microphone, and webcam. You will also need stable internet access outside of
lecture and lab. See the BYOD webpage for information on the program, approved devices,
and financial assistance. BYOD devices fulfill the requirements for this class.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
This is both a study abroad class and a fast-paced compressed class. Each meeting
represents approximately 1.5 weeks in a normally delivered 15-week course. You
are expected to be present and on time for each class and stay until the class is
over.