<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] ISEN 641 Syllabus
Section 600 (59191)
Systems Engineering Methods and Frameworks
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: T
Start Time: 6:00PM
End Time: 8:30PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 440
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Michael Graul
Email:  mgraul@tamu.edu
Office Location:  ETB 4017 and ZACH 403D
Phone:  979-575-7162
Office Hours
FRI and SUN 3-4p via zoom link:  https://tamu.zoom.us/j/92077192436?
pwd=YPvt6NpI0rT9mSU9H5NdaCxEIty2ar.1
Preferred Contact Method
mgraul@tamu.edu
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Systems Engineering Methods and Frameworks. (3-0). Credit 3. Concepts,
methodology, methods and tools for discovery, definition, analysis, design, creation,
and sustainment of systems involving information, physical, and human elements;
architecture modeling methods include IDEF/UPDM; systems engineering
frameworks include DoDAF/MoDAF, and Zachman; analysis tools include executable
architectures to assess consistency, interoperability and performance.
Prerequisites: MATH 304 or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
course details
[12.0pt] From the instructor
[12.0pt] This course is designed to provide the students with an understanding of the
[12.0pt] concepts, methodology, methods and tools of systems discovery, definition,
[12.0pt] analysis, design, creation, and sustainment. The main focus of the course is to
[12.0pt] develop the students’ critical thinking skills to 1) define and analyze the as-is
[12.0pt] system, 2) develop and communicate the to-be system requirements, 3)
[12.0pt] transition these requirements into the design specification of a new or modified
[12.0pt] system, and 4) evaluate the value, correctness, interoperability, and performance
[12.0pt] of a system design. ISEN 640 is highly recommended as a prerequisite for this
[12.0pt] course
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  MATH 304 or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
The student will learn the component methods for systems architecting including:
function modeling, process modeling, information and data modeling, ontology
modeling and representation, software and system behavioral and structural
design, systems dynamics modeling. The student will also learn the standard
frameworks for structuring the systems development process and documenting the
resulting artifacts. Finally the student will learn the core techniques for system
architecture analysis including: requirements analysis, allocation, assessment, and
design traceability, 2) design verification, validation, and completeness (VV&C), 3)
cost / performance/risk tradeoff analysis, and 4) simulation based (Monte Carlo and
Systems Dynamics) architecture performance assessment. In summary the learning
objectives of this course include:
[12.0pt] 1.  Mastery of component methods for system Architecting:
[12.0pt] a.  Activity Modeling
[12.0pt] b.  Process Modeling
[12.0pt] c.  Information and Data Modeling
[12.0pt] d.  Knowledge Modeling
[12.0pt] e.  Factor Trees and Causal Loop Diagrams
[12.0pt] f.  Solution Creation with DoDAF AV, CV, OV, DIV-1, SysML
[12.0pt] g.  System Design with SysML, DoDAF SV, DIV-2/3
[12.0pt] 2.  Mastery of “framework” of methods
[12.0pt] for structuring the approach to systems development
[12.0pt] 3.  Familiarization with basic architecting and analysis methods :
[12.0pt] a.  Symptom collection and diagnosis
[12.0pt] b.  Need condition formulation
[12.0pt] c.  Requirement constraint formulation
[12.0pt] d.  Requirements Analysis, Allocation, Assessment, and Traceability
[12.0pt] e.  Analysis of Alternatives
[12.0pt] f.  Verification, Validation, and Completeness (VV&C)
[12.0pt] g.  Cost / Performance Based Trades
[12.0pt] h.  Simulation based architecture evaluation and performance
[12.0pt] assessment
[12.0pt] 4.  Familiarization with documentation for system development life cycle
[12.0pt] artifacts
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
The student is required to acquire and study references called out in each module.
Past lectures will be made available for review on-line
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
grading policy
Grading policy
Grading policy
[12.0pt] Class attendance is required unless otherwise arranged with the instructor.
[12.0pt] Homework is due as stated on each Canvas managed assignment.  Class
[12.0pt] time will be used to discuss HW solutions.  Late homework may or may
[12.0pt] not be accepted at the sole discretion of the instructor, except as provided
[12.0pt] for in the Student Rules regarding Academics at  http://student-
[12.0pt] rules.tamu.edu . Take home examinations are due at the time and date stated
[12.0pt] on the Canvas assignment. Late examination submissions are not accepted,
[12.0pt] except as provided for in the Student Rules regarding Academics
[12.0pt] at  http://student-rules.tamu.edu . The material in this course is best learned
[12.0pt] through actual “doing”. Systems Engineering is predominantly practiced a
[12.0pt] team environment.
[12.0pt] Therefore the grades will be determined through student performance on
[12.0pt] homework assignments and in class participation as well as through
[12.0pt] examinations.
[12.0pt] 1.  Homework (25%)
[12.0pt] 2.  Class Participation + Quizzes 25%
[12.0pt] 3.  Take home mid-term exam  25%
[12.0pt] 4.  Final exam  25%
[12.0pt] Optional assignments and test questions may be made available for extra
[12.0pt] credit.
Grading scale
[11.0pt bold] Grading Scale
[12.0pt] Grading will be on the Standard Letter Grading Scale:
[12.0pt] A = 90-100
[12.0pt] B = 80-89
[12.0pt] C = 70-79
[12.0pt] D = 60-69
[12.0pt] F = <60
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[12.0pt] This course will start with the study of component systems as simple or complex
[12.0pt] hybrids, involving information, computation, mechanical, and human elements. Later
[12.0pt] in the course we will study “capabilities” that are formed as collections of
[12.0pt] interoperating systems – referred to in the current vernacular as a system of systems,
[12.0pt] or SOS. We will study the way engineered orchestration of the interoperability and
[12.0pt] combined performance of the collection will result in a desired capability.
[12.0pt] Throughout the course we will study methods, languages, and techniques that enable
[12.0pt] us to ‘view’ and analyze the as-is system, develop and communicate the to-be system
[12.0pt] requirements, and transition these requirements into the design specification of a new
[12.0pt] or modified system. The initial modeling methods focus will be the IDEF function,
[12.0pt] information, process, data, and ontology modeling methods.. Our study will be
[12.0pt] performed within the context of the systems development life cycle and the use of
[12.0pt] frameworks for applying the systems engineering discipline. The DoD Architecture
[12.0pt] Framework (DoDAF) will be the primary structure studied. Other enterprise
[12.0pt] architectural frameworks such as MoDAF, FEAF, and the Zachman AF will be
[12.0pt] overviewed. The SysML/UML languages will be covered as they are a key
[12.0pt] component in these frameworks and the current basis for MBSE (Model Based
[12.0pt] Systems   Engineering). The primary analysis tools covered will be systems dynamics
[12.0pt] simulation. The foundational methods of factor trees and causal loop diagrams that
[12.0pt] support creation of systems dynamics simulation will be covered.
Topical outline
[12.0pt bold] Week
[12.0pt bold] Topic
[12.0pt bold] Required Reading
[12.0pt] 1
[12.0pt] Overview of System Engineering & Architectures
[12.0pt] Methods
[10.0pt bold] See Lecture Slides
[12.0pt] 2
[12.0pt] Function Architecture Method
[10.0pt bold] See Lecture Slides
[12.0pt] 3
[12.0pt] Function Architecture Practice
[10.0pt bold] See Lecture Slides
[12.0pt] 4
[12.0pt] Information & Data Architecture History, Theory,
[12.0pt] & Method
[10.0pt bold] See Lecture Slides
[12.0pt] 5
[12.0pt] Information Architecture Practice
[10.0pt bold] See Lecture Slides
[12.0pt] 6
[12.0pt] Process Architecture Method
[10.0pt bold] See Lecture Slides
[12.0pt] 7
[12.0pt] Process Architecture Practice
[10.0pt bold] See Lecture Slides
[12.0pt] 7
[12.0pt] Mid Term Take Home Exam
[12.0pt] Distributed to Students
[12.0pt] 8
[12.0pt] DoDAF Part I & SysML/UML Introduction
[10.0pt bold] See Lecture Slides
[12.0pt] 8
[12.0pt] Mid Term Take Home Exam Response Due
[12.0pt] 9
[12.0pt] DoDAF Part II & SysML/UML Basics
[10.0pt bold] See Lecture Slides
[12.0pt] 10
[12.0pt] DoDAF Part II & SysML/UML Practice
[12.0pt] 11
[12.0pt] SySML
[10.0pt bold] See Lecture Slides
[12.0pt] 12
[12.0pt] SySML Practice
[10.0pt bold] See Lecture Slides
[12.0pt] 13
[12.0pt] Ontology Architecture History, Theory, Method &
[12.0pt] Practice
[10.0pt bold] See Lecture Slides
schedule continuation
Systems dynamics emphasis
[12.0pt] 14
[12.0pt] Factor Trees, Causal Loops & Systems
[12.0pt] Dynamics Simulation
[10.0pt bold] See Lecture Slides
[12.0pt] 14
[12.0pt] Systems Dynamics Practice and System
[12.0pt] Documentation
[10.0pt bold] See Lecture Slides
14      Final exam distributed to students
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[12.0pt] Required lecture reference readings are included in the lecture slides.
[12.0pt] Select prior year lectures, some reference materials/required readings, and this
[12.0pt] semesters lectures will be made available on Canvas. It is highly recommended that
[12.0pt] students avail themselves of this resource.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
ISEN 641 is interesting in that the SE methods and frameworks discussed are used
to represent knowledge and would likely fit under the symbolic view of AI (versus
say the connectionist view of AI highlighted by heavy emphasis on data processing
and pattern extraction).
SE Methods produce models that embody the very knowledge that AI technologies
seek to leverage (at least that's the hope through elements such as the RAG).
If you can find AI apps that produce the models, using the methods, that we are
covering in the course then by all means make it part of the class discussion.  If you
have a question regarding the use of AI in this course then please ask.  I worked for
Dr. Richard Mayer at KBSI for 30y (the developer of this course).  It's an AI company
and he will be an observer in the course as well.  A major goal of the course is to
produce models that represent knowledge that can used by AI applications.
The bottom line is this - 641 is about the human use of SE methods and techniques
to produce models that can be used both by humans and AI apps. Using AI apps to
generate these models and their associated design rationale is not an objective of
the course and any attempt to do so must be first cleared with the instructor.