<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] ISEN 489 Syllabus
Section 501 (60410)
Special Topics in...
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 08:00AM
End Time: 09:15AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ETB 1027
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Alfredo Garcia
Email:  alfredo.garcia@tamu.edu
Office Location:  ETB 4072
Phone:  19794582368
Office Hours
W 1-2:30 pm
Preferred Contact Method
email
Biography
agarcia.engr.tamu.edu
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Special Topics in... Credit 1 to 5. In-depth study of areas of current student interest
and recent advances; normally used for first time offering of new courses.
Prerequisite: Approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
This course offers an introduction to reinforcement learning (RL), with an emphasis
on Python-based implementations. Beginning with the theory of Markov Decision
Processes (MDPs) we will review and progressing to state-of-the-art RL algorithms.
Topics include the Bellman equation, properties of value functions and optimal
policies, and key algorithmic frameworks such as Q-learning and policy-based
methods (e.g., policy gradient and actor-critic). The course also explores
applications of RL in diverse domains (inventory control, robotics).
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Linear Algebra, Probability. More specifically, grade of C or better in MATH
304 or MATH 323; grade of C or better in DAEN 211 (or equivalent); junior or
senior classification. Proficiency in Python.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
to formulate and analyze stochastic dynamic optimization problems and
to implement, test and validate reinforcement algorithms to learn optimal
solutions in stochastic, dynamic environments.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Lecture notes
ISBN:  N/A
Authors:  Alfredo Garcia
Notes:
Lecture notes will be provided. Complementary reading material from
Reinforcement Learning  by A. Sutton and R. Barto (2018)
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Homework (20\%)
2 Midterm Exams (in class) (50\%)
Final Project (30\%)
All assignments are expected to be completed individually unless otherwise
specified. Any disagreements regarding a grade received on any graded material
must be discussed within one week of the return of the graded material. No grade
will be changed beyond the one week limit. If you request a regrade, the entire
assignment will be regarded (i.e. if we made a mistake in your favor, this will also be
corrected). Grades will be calculated on the basis of total points earned.
The thresholds for letter grades are:
[13.0pt] A: 90-100 B: 80-89 C: 70-79 D: 60-69 F: 59 and lower
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late work is not accepted.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Week                        Topic
1.  Markov Chains. Ergodicity. Stationary Distribution
2. Markov Decision Process (MDP), Examples: Inventory Control, Linear
Quadratic Control.
3. Finite Horizon Stochastic Dynamic Programming, Principle of Optimality
4. Bellman equation, Value Iteration,
5. Infinite Horizon Dynamic Programming.
6. Policy Iteration. Euler's Equation.
7.  Midterm : February 24
8. Temporal Difference Leaning
9.   Entropy regularized Q-Learning
10. Policy Gradient.
11.  Actor-Critic methods.
12. Advantage Estimation.
13.  Midterm : Late-March (in class)
14. Introduction to Large Language Models (LLMs)
15. Training LLMs with RL. GRPO.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
N/A
[16.0pt] AI Statement
AI tools are allowed. Specific policies will vary depending upon specific assignment.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
N/A
[16.0pt] Course Specific Makeup Work Policy
N/A