<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 411 Syllabus
Section 502 (42397)
Design and Analysis of Algorithms
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 5:30PM
End Time: 6:45PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 350
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Samson Zhou
Email:  samsonzhou@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 424
Phone:  9794586242
Office Hours
TR 4-5 pm
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Design and Analysis of Algorithms. (3-0). Credit 3. Study of computer algorithms for
numeric and non-numeric problems; design paradigms; analysis of time and space
requirements of algorithms; correctness of algorithms; NP-completeness and
undecidability of problems. Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in CSCE 221 and
CSCE 222; junior or senior classification or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 221 and
CSCE 222/ECEN 222; junior or senior classification or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of the course, students will be able to:
Explain a variety of fundamental algorithms and algorithmic techniques
Select the most appropriate algorithm to solve a given problem
Analyze the correctness, runtime, and space complexity of an algorithm
Design new algorithms and modify existing ones using techniques discussed
in class
Recognize when a problem is likely intractable (has no efficient algorithm) and
be able to prove this by showing undecidability or NP-hardness
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Optional
Introduction to Algorithms, fourth edition
ISBN:  9780262367509
Authors:  Thomas H. Cormen, Charles E. Leiserson,
Ronald L. Rivest, Clifford Stein
Publisher:  MIT Press
Publication Date:  2022-04-05
URL for Resource:
https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?
direct=true&db=nlebk&AN=2932690&site=eds-
live&scope=site&authtype=shib&custid=s8516548&ebv=
EK&ppid=Page-__-1
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[12.9pt] Grading Policy
Participation 3%
Homework assignments 22%
Midterm 1 24%
Midterm 2 24%
Final exam 27%
The grading scale will be: A  ≥  90% > B  ≥  80% > C  ≥  70% > D  ≥  60% > F.
If the course average is slow, a slight upward curve may be applied. A downward
curve will not be applied (e.g., if a student has an 80% or above, this guarantees a
grade of B or better).
Your lowest homework assignment will be dropped. It is possible for different
homework sets to be worth different numbers of points (e.g., a homework graded
out of 100 points would contribute twice as much to your grade as a homework out
of 50 points). The homework that will be dropped at the end of the semester is the
homework which, when dropped, leads to the highest possible homework grade
among remaining homework sets.
[12.9pt] Attendance and participation
Attendance will be taken only indirectly via in-class polls. The participation grade can
be met by in-class participation (e.g., answering questions, presenting answers to in-
class activities, answering polling questions while in class), and out-of-class
engagement (e.g., coming to office hours, submitting intro video, completing the
syllabus quiz). Students are guaranteed to receive full credit for participation if they
satisfy one of the following two options:
(1) Passing the syllabus quiz assignment, uploading an intro video, plus participation
in in-class polls on 8 different days
OR
(2) Passing the syllabus quiz assignment, and participating in in-class polls on 15
different days.
In order to participate in an in-class poll, a student needs to be physically present in
the classroom and attending class on the day of the poll. Answering a poll while not
in class, or answering a poll on behalf of another student, are strictly forbidden and
will result in academic integrity violations.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[12.9pt] Late Work and Makeup Work Policy
Homework.  Homework assignments may be submitted up to 24 hours late with a
penalty of 25%. If it is submitted within 5 hours of the deadline, it will be graded
with a smaller penalty of 5% x (number of hours since deadline). Work submitted
more than 24 hours after the deadline will not be accepted. (Recall that your lowest
homework assignment will be dropped.)
Tests.  Students are expected to take exams at the scheduled times. In accordance
with TAMU policy, students with an acceptable excused absence (as defined by the
University) are entitled to a make-up exam, provided they notify the instructor as
soon as possible and supply formal verification (e.g., a doctor’s note).
Make-up exams will be administered at the instructor’s discretion and may differ in
format from the original exam.
The final exam may not be dropped under any circumstances. In addition, at most
one midterm exam may be excluded from grade calculations, and only in cases of
documented, excused absences. Students may not drop all exams.
When an exam is legitimately excluded, the final course grade will be computed
using the reweighted average of the remaining required assessments (including
other exams, homework, and quizzes).
In-class polls.  Polls are designed to be given frequently enough that it is easy to get
full participation credit even if a student has many excused absences throughout
the semester. If a student has so many excused absences that they are not able to
attend 15 class periods during the duration of the semester, then they have the
opportunity to try to achieve full credit for their participation grade by (a) providing
documentation for all absences (e.g., doctor’s notes) and (b) scheduling to take an
oral content comprehension exam at the end of the semester. Students interested
in trying to make up for missed polls by taking such an oral comprehension exam
should reach out directly to the professor.
[12.9pt] Homework policy
You are allowed, under a very specific set of guidelines, to consult outside sources
and discuss homework problems with other students. However, the write-up must
be entirely in your own words—copying is strictly prohibited and will result in
academic integrity violations. Additionally, if you receive any type of help from
outside resources or discuss problems with others, you are required to list all
resources and collaborators in your homework write-up (e.g., existing webpages,
textbooks, discussion with other students in the course or students outside the
course, etc.). Discussing problems includes both receiving help or giving help of any
kind. Posting homework questions or soliciting help in online sites or forums is
strictly prohibited. E.g., while reading an existing post about a similar problem is
okay, creating a new post asking for the answer to your question is not okay.
Most homework assignments will be submitted via Gradescope as a pdf. There will
be a link to access Gradescope via the Canvas course webpage. For assignments
submitted in Gradescope, it is very important to assign specific problem answers to
pages on Gradescope.  If pages are not properly assigned, the graders may not see
the solution and student will not receive credit for the problem.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Course Schedule
Tentative Schedule
This schedule is tentative and may change slightly during the semester. There
are roughly three units:
(1) High-level paradigms for design and analysis of algorithms
(2) Graph algorithms
(3) Complexity theory and optimization
Week
Date
Topic
1
Jan 12 – Jan 16    Divide and Conquer
2
Jan 19 – Jan 23    Dynamic Programming
3
Jan 26 – Jan 30    Greedy Algorithms
4
Feb 2 – Feb 6
Amortized Analysis
5
Feb 9 – Feb 13
Review &  Test 1
6
Feb 16 – Feb 20   Intro to Graph Algorithms, BFS
7
Feb 23 – Feb 27   Graph Algs: DFS
8
Mar 2 – Mar 6
Graph Algs: Minimum Spanning Trees
9
Mar 9 – Mar 13    Spring Break
10
Mar 16 – Mar
20
Graph Algs: Shortest Paths
11
Mar 23 – Mar
27
Graph Algs: Maximum s-t Flow
12
Mar 30 - Apr 3
Review &  Test 2
13
Apr 6 - Apr 10
Intro to P and NP
14
Apr 13 - Apr 17   NP-Completeness
15
Apr 20 - Apr 24   Linear Programming
[12.9pt] Exams
The midterm exams will be given in class. These are dates for the midterms:
Midterm 1: February 12 (Thursday)
Midterm 2: April 2 (Thursday)
The final exam will be held on Tuesday, May 5 from 3:30 pm-5:30 pm.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[12.9pt] Attendance Policy
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student
responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all
assignments.
Please refer to  Student Rule 7  in its entirety for information about excused
absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[12.9pt] AI Statement
Restrictive:
This course assumes that all work submitted by students will be generated by the
students themselves. Students should not have another person/entity do the
writing of any substantive portion of an assignment for them, which includes hiring
a person or a company to write assignments and using artificial intelligence tools
like ChatGPT.
(adapted from University of Massachusetts Amherst,
https://cte.tamu.edu/getmedia/1d5e4ef6-97f1-4065-987f-3c9dfecbb7bd/TAMU-
CTE_GenAI-SyllabusStatementConsiderations.pdfOpen this document with
ReadSpeaker docReader )
Permissive:
Writing:  Use of AI tools, including ChatGPT, is permitted in this course for students
who wish to use them. To adhere to our scholarly values, students must
cite any AI-generated material that informed their work (this includes in-text
citations and/or use of quotations, and in your reference list). Using an AI tool to
generate content without proper attribution qualifies as academic dishonesty. See
https://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/qanda/data/faq/topics/Documentation/faq0
422.html
for information how to properly cite AI tools.
(adapted from University of Massachusetts Amherst,
https://cte.tamu.edu/getmedia/1d5e4ef6-97f1-4065-987f-3c9dfecbb7bd/TAMU-
CTE_GenAI-SyllabusStatementConsiderations.pdfOpen this document with
ReadSpeaker docReader )
Computer Code . In principle you may submit AI-generated code, or code that is
based on or derived from AI-generated code, as long as this use is properly
documented in the comments: you need to include the prompt and the significant
parts of the response. AI tools may help you avoid syntax errors, but there is no
guarantee that the generated code is correct. It is your responsibility to identify
errors in program logic through comprehensive, documented testing. Moreover,
generated code, even if syntactically correct, may have significant scope for
improvement, in particular regarding separation of concerns and avoiding
repetitions. The submission itself must meet our standards of attribution and
validation.
(from Boris Steipe (2023) “Syllabus Resources”. The Sentient Syllabus Project
http://sentientsyllabus.org )
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
[12.9pt] Attendance and participation
Attendance will be taken only indirectly via in-class polls. The participation grade can
be met by in-class participation (e.g., answering questions, presenting answers to in-
class activities, answering polling questions while in class), and out-of-class
engagement (e.g., coming to office hours, submitting intro video, completing the
syllabus quiz). Students are guaranteed to receive full credit for participation if they
satisfy one of the following two options:
(1) Passing the syllabus quiz assignment, uploading an intro video, plus participation
in in-class polls on 8 different days
OR
(2) Passing the syllabus quiz assignment, and participating in in-class polls on 15
different days.
In order to participate in an in-class poll, a student needs to be physically present in
the classroom and attending class on the day of the poll. Answering a poll while not
in class, or answering a poll on behalf of another student, are strictly forbidden and
will result in academic integrity violations.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Makeup Work Policy
[12.9pt] Late Work and Makeup Work Policy
Homework.  Homework assignments may be submitted up to 24 hours late with a
penalty of 25%. If it is submitted within 5 hours of the deadline, it will be graded
with a smaller penalty of 5% x (number of hours since deadline). Work submitted
more than 24 hours after the deadline will not be accepted. (Recall that your lowest
homework assignment will be dropped.)
Tests.  No make-up tests will be given. If a student needs to be absent from class on
a test day due to an unavoidable and acceptable excused absence, that student
needs to get approval from the instructor in advance. The absence must be
acceptable as defined by TAMU’s policy and will require formal verification (e.g., a
doctor’s note). If any tests are missed, the final grade will be computed using the
weighted average of remaining assignments in the course (which includes other
tests, homework assignments, and quizzes).