<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 669 Syllabus
Section 600 (58438)
Computational Optimization
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MWF
Start Time: 09:10AM
End Time: 10:00AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  HRBB 126
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Jianer Chen
Email:  j-chen3@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 428
Phone:  (979) 845-4259
Office Hours
10:10 am - 11:10 am, PETR 428
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Computational Optimization. (3-0). Credit 3. Combinatorial theory of polytopes as a
tool for the solution of combinatorial optimization problems; applications to max
flow, matching and matroids; geometric interpretation of the results indicating the
profound role that polyhedral combinatorics play in the design and complexity of
approximation algorithms. Prerequisite: CSCE 629.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  CSCE 629.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Master basic theories and techniques in the current research in computational
optimization.
apply theories and techniques studied in the course to solve real-world problems in
computational optimization.
Use appropriate technologies to communicate, collaborate, and conduct research in
the area of computational optimization.
Gain a solid background and preparation for advanced research in computational
optimization, and other related research areas.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Introduction to Tractability and Approximability of Optimization Problems
Authors:  Jianer Chen
Notes:
Will be posted in Canvas
This material Is: Recommended
The Design of Approximation Algorithms
ISBN:  978-0-521-19527-0
Authors:  D. Williamson and D. Shmoys
Publisher:  Cambridge University Press
Publication Date:  2011
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
There are 3 homework assignments, used to test students’ understanding of
the course lectures. The final exam will be comprehensive. The course
research project will provide students with opportunities to read recent
published papers in the area and do research on problems currently
interesting in the area.
Homework: 10*3 = 30%, Course project: 35%, Final exam 35%.
Grading Scale: A = 90-100%, B = 70-89%, C = 60-70%, F = 0-59 %
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[11.0pt bold] The assignments and project are due on the designated due dates at the  beginning
of class. No late submissions will be accepted. Discuss unusual circumstances in
advance with the instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Week 1 (1/12- ): Algorithmic background review
Week 2 (1/19- ): Maximum flow and graph matching
Week 3 (1/26- ): Linear programming
Week 4 (2/2- ): NP-completeness theory and approximation algorithms
Week 5 (2/9- ): Approximation algorithms: FPTAS algorithms, homework #1
due
Week 6 (2/16- ): Approximation algorithms: PTAS algorithms
Week 7 (2/23- ): Approximation algorithms: PTAS algorithms (continued)
Week 8 (3/2- ): Approximation algorithms: APX algorithms
Week 9 (3/9- ): Spring break. No classes
Week 10 (3/16- ): Approximation algorithms: APX algorithms (continued),
homework #2 due
Week 11 (3/23- ): Inapproximability results, PCP theorem
Week 12 (3/30- ): Parameterized algorithms
Week 13 (4/6- ): Parameterized algorithms (continued), homework #3 due
Week 14 (4/13- ): ETH and Computational lower bounds
Week 15 (4/20- ): Exact algorithms for NP-hard problems
Week 16 (4/27): Exact algorithms for NP-hard problems (continued), course
project due
May 1, Friday, Final exam (8:00 am – 10:00 am).
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
All course information will be posted in canvas. You should check your course
announcements, course material and due dates daily. It is strongly recommended that
you keep up with the course material and do not fall behind. Start working on
assignments as soon as they are assigned.
This course is using Canvas Learning Management System. Students submit their
homework and projects via Canvas.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[13.0pt] The use of AI is strictly prohibited in this course.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
[13.0pt] Class attendance is strongly recommended. The student is responsible
[13.0pt] for any material missed. Missed exams may be made up only when the
[13.0pt] absence is university sanctioned. Medical reasons or other
[13.0pt] extenuating conditions beyond the control of the student must be
[13.0pt] properly documented. Discuss unusual circumstances in advance with
[13.0pt] the instructor when possible.