<!-- body_font:8.5pt -->
[12.2pt] CSCE 221 Syllabus
Section 507 (16242)
Data Structures and Algorithms
Spring 2026 - College Station
[12.2pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MWF
Start Time: 09:10AM
End Time: 10:00AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 310
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 1:50PM
End Time: 2:40PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 592
Credit Hours:  4
[12.2pt] Instructor Details
Roger Pearce
Email:  rpearce@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 110
Phone:  9798452744
Office Hours
[9.9pt] See the Course Resources on Canvas
Preferred Contact Method
email
[12.2pt] Catalog Description
Data Structures and Algorithms. (3-2). Credit 4. Specification and implementation of basic abstract data types and
their associated algorithms including stacks, queues, lists, sorting and selection, searching, graphs, and hashing;
performance tradeoffs of different implementations and asymptotic analysis of running time and memory usage;
includes the execution of student programs written in C++. Prerequisite: Grade C or better in CSCE 120 or CSCE
121; grade of C or better in CSCE 222 or ECEN 222, or concurrent enrollment.
[12.2pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade C or better in CSCE 120 or CSCE 121; grade of C or better in
CSCE 222/ECEN 222 or ECEN 222/CSCE 222, or concurrent enrollment.
[12.2pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Design and implement a variety of data structures  that support efficient data manipulation using the
C++ programming language.
[8.4pt bold] Apply Big ‑ O asymptotic notation  to analyze algorithmic efficiency and select appropriate algorithms
based on runtime and memory considerations.
[12.2pt] Special Course Designation
None
[12.2pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Data Structures and Algorithm Analysis in C++
ISBN:  978-0132847377
Authors:  Mark A. Weiss
Publisher:  Pearson
Publication Date:  June 13, 2013
Edition:  4th edition
[12.2pt] Additional Instructional Materials
This Material is: Optional
A free website devoted to teaching you how to program in modern C++
URL for Resource:  http://learncpp.com/
[12.2pt] Grading Policy
[9.9pt] Grading Criteria
[9.9pt] Score
[9.9pt] Grade
[9.9pt] 90 - 100
[9.9pt] A
[9.9pt] 80 - 89.9
[9.9pt] B
[9.9pt] 70 - 79.9
[9.9pt] C
[9.9pt] 60 - 69.9
[9.9pt] D
[9.9pt] Score
[9.9pt] Grade
[9.9pt] 0 - 59.9
[9.9pt] F
[9.9pt] Grade Weights
[9.9pt] Component
[9.9pt] Weight
[9.9pt] Homework Assignments
[9.9pt] 9%
[9.9pt] Programming Assignments
[9.9pt] 24%
[9.9pt] Lab Activities
[9.9pt] 10%
[9.9pt] Quizzes
[9.9pt] 12%
[9.9pt] Midterm Exam 1
[9.9pt] 15%
[9.9pt] Midterm Exam 2
[9.9pt] 15%
[9.9pt] Final Exam
[9.9pt] 15%
[12.2pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not considered late work and is exempt
from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[12.2pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[9.9pt] Make-up exams and quizzes will only be given with documented University-approved
[9.9pt] excuses, see  University Regulations . The student  Rule 07  explains policies and excused
[9.9pt] absences.
[9.9pt] A homework assignment will be accepted up to  1 day late with a 5% penalty . Once
[9.9pt] solutions have been discussed or handed out the assignments will not be accepted.
[9.9pt] Please discuss unusual circumstances in advance with the instructor.
[12.2pt] Course Schedule
[8.0pt] Course Schedule
[8.0pt] Module
[8.0pt] Week/Day
[8.0pt] Topic
[8.0pt] 01
[8.0pt] Jan 12 - 16
[8.0pt] Introduction to Data Structures
[8.0pt] Pointers, Arrays, Vectors
[8.0pt] Introduction to Analysis of Algorithms
[8.0pt] 02
[8.0pt] Jan 19 - 23
[8.0pt] Complexity of Search and Sort Algorithms
[8.0pt] Algorithms – Best, Worst, Average Cases
[8.0pt] Jan 19
[8.0pt] MKL Day (no classes)
[8.0pt] 03
[8.0pt] Jan 26 - 30
[8.0pt] The Lower Bound Theorem
[8.0pt] Linear Sort Algorithms
[8.0pt] Stack ADT – Array Based Implementation
[8.0pt] 04
[8.0pt] Feb 02 - 06
[8.0pt] Queue ADT – Array-based Implementation
[8.0pt] Amortized Analysis
[8.0pt] Stack and Queue Applications; Parser
[8.0pt] Module
[8.0pt] Week/Day
[8.0pt] Topic
[8.0pt] 05
[8.0pt] Feb 09 - 13
[8.0pt] Linked Lists (Stack and Queue based)
[8.0pt] Dequeues
[8.0pt] Recursive Algorithms
[8.0pt] Feb 09
[8.0pt] Midterm Exam 1
[8.0pt] 06
[8.0pt] Feb 16 - 20
[8.0pt] Analysis of Divide-and-Conquer Algorithms
[8.0pt] Iterating and Master Methods
[8.0pt] 07
[8.0pt] Feb 23 - 27
[8.0pt] Binary Search Trees
[8.0pt] AVL Trees
[8.0pt] Read-Black Trees
[8.0pt] 08
[8.0pt] Mar 02 - 06
[8.0pt] 2-4 Trees
[8.0pt] Skip Lists
[8.0pt] Mar 02
[8.0pt] Midterm Grades
[8.0pt] Mar 18
[8.0pt] Midterm Exam 2
[8.0pt] Mar 09 - 13
[8.0pt] Spring Break (no classes)
[8.0pt] 09
[8.0pt] Mar 16 - 20
[8.0pt] Hashing
[8.0pt] Priority Queues
[8.0pt] Heap
[8.0pt] 10
[8.0pt] Mar 23 - 27
[8.0pt] Huffman Trees
[8.0pt] Graphs
[8.0pt] BFS and DFS
[8.0pt] 11
[8.0pt] Mar 30 - Apr 03
[8.0pt] Digraph Algorithms
[8.0pt] Apr 03
[8.0pt] Reading Day (no classes)
[8.0pt] 12
[8.0pt] Apr 06 - 10
[8.0pt] Shortest Path Algorithms
[8.0pt] Dijkstra Algorithms
[8.0pt] 13
[8.0pt] Apr 13 - 17
[8.0pt] Minimum Spanning Trees
[8.0pt] Prim's Algorithm
[8.0pt] Apr 14
[8.0pt] Q-Drop Deadline
[8.0pt] 14
[8.0pt] Apr 20 - 24
[8.0pt] Disjoint Set ADT
[8.0pt] 15
[8.0pt] Apr 27 - 29
[8.0pt] Kruskal Algorithm
[8.0pt] Apr 28
[8.0pt] Redefined Day (Friday)
[8.0pt] Last day of classes
[8.0pt] Final Review
[8.0pt] Apr 29
[8.0pt] Reading Day (no classes)
[8.0pt] May 1
[8.0pt] Final Exam: 8:00 am - 10:00 am
[12.2pt] Additional Course Information
[9.9pt] Your final grade will be determined based on written homework, programming
[9.9pt] assignments, lab activities, quizzes, and exams.
[9.9pt] The assignment handout will provide points distribution.
[9.9pt] All grade appeals must be made no later than one week after the grade is posted.
[9.9pt] The students lab attendance is required and will be taken on regular basis. 2 bonus points
[9.9pt] will be added to your final score if you have a perfect lab attendance, or 1 point if you have
[9.9pt] only one lab absence.
[9.9pt] The lecture attendance will be taken by pop quizzes. The students are responsible to learn
[9.9pt] all material covered in class, read the assigned text from the textbook and do homework
[9.9pt] assignments.
[9.9pt] All homework assignments will be announced in class and posted on Canvas.  See the
[9.9pt] link to the course calendar on Canvas for deadlines.
[9.9pt] The written part of homework assignments or programming reports, and the Cover Page
[9.9pt] should be typed  preferably using LaTeX or LaTeX-based apps,  for instance Overleaf (an
[9.9pt] online LaTeX text editor). The homework  in PDF format  should be submitted
[9.9pt] to  Gradescope .
[9.9pt] All programming assignments  should be implemented in C++ , compiled and run on a
[9.9pt] computer (preferably using Linux), and transferred to  Gradescope  for grading.
[9.9pt] Quizzes are over material covered during the lectures and/or assigned reading from the
[9.9pt] course material.
[9.9pt] The Instructor and/or TAs can request oral exam  to check student’s knowledge over
[9.9pt] material covered by test, homework, assignment or lecture and lab activities.
[9.9pt] Use Canvas to get access to the lecture notes, quizzes and tests, assignments, and check
[9.9pt] your grades on the regular basis during the semester.
[12.2pt] AI Statement
[9.9pt] This course assumes that all work submitted by students will be generated by the students
[9.9pt] themselves, although discussion with TAs, PTs and Instructor is allowed. Students should not
[9.9pt] have another person/entity do the writing of any portion of an assignment for them, which
[9.9pt] includes hiring a person or a company to write assignments and/or using artificial intelligence
[9.9pt] tools like ChatGPT. ( Adapted from University of Massachusetts Amherst )
[9.9pt] Campuswire
[9.9pt] It is the consolidated and fully customizable home base for the course
[9.9pt] communication.
[9.9pt] It is a modern Q&A forum and chatrooms for group discussion
[9.9pt] Peer Teachers (PTs) help students to understand the material taught in classes and labs,
[9.9pt] practice computational thinking and improve programming skills.
[9.9pt] Peer Teacher Central location: PETR 127
[9.9pt] Website