<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 670 Syllabus
Section 600 (46627)
Information Storage and Retrieval
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MWF
Start Time: 1:50PM
End Time: 2:40PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  HRBB 113
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Yu Zhang
Email:  yuzhang@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 222
Phone:  (217) 954-3457
Office Hours
Mondays 3:30 – 4:30 PM
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Information Storage and Retrieval. (3-0). Credit 3. Representation, storage, and
access to very large multimedia document collections; fundamental data structures
and algorithms of information storage and retrieval systems; techniques to design
and evaluate complete retrieval systems, including cover of algorithms for indexing,
compressing, and querying very large collections. Prerequisites: CSCE 310 or CSCE
603 or approval of instructor; graduate classification.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  CSCE 310 or CSCE 603 or approval of instructor;
graduate classification.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
• Define and explain the key concepts and models relevant to web search, including
topics like text indexing, retrieval models, evaluation, Web crawling, link-based
algorithms like PageRank, and learning to rank.
• Define and explain the key concepts and models relevant to recommender
systems, including topics like collaborative filtering, matrix factorization,
recommender system evaluation, and implicit recommendation.
• Design, implement, and evaluate the core algorithms underlying a fully functional
web search system and recommendation system.
• Identify the salient features and apply recent research results in web search and
recommender systems, including topics such as adversarial information retrieval and
neural models of retrieval and recommendation.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Optional
Mining of Massive Datasets
Authors:  Jure Leskovec, Anand Rajaraman, and Jeffrey D. Ullman
Publication Date:  2014
Notes:
Available online:  http://www.mmds.org/
This material Is: Optional
Introduction to Information Retrieval
Authors:  Christopher D. Manning, Prabhakar Raghavan, and Hinrich Schutze
Publication Date:  2009
Notes:
Available online:  https://nlp.stanford.edu/IR-book/
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
The course grading scale is:
A : >=90%
B : >=80% and < 90%
C : >=70% and < 80%
D : >=60% and < 70%
F : < 60%
[11.0pt bold] Homework 30% : We will have five programming assignments
(2%+7%+7%+7%+7%). All of them will be in Python. The first assignment is an
introductory one designed to help you get familiar with Jupyter Notebook and the
Python operations commonly used in this course.
[11.0pt bold] Quizzes 20% : We will have four brief in-class quizzes (5%+5%+5%+5%).
[11.0pt bold] Final 30% : We will hold a comprehensive final exam from 3:30 - 5:30 PM on May 4
in HRBB 113.
[11.0pt bold] Group Project 20% : Students will work in teams of 3 or 4 to engage in a mini-
research project.
Homework collaboration policy : Homeworks are individual assignments. That is, you
should write your own code, by yourself. However, we do encourage you to talk
amongst yourselves about approaches and methods. As an example, it is
appropriate to sit in a group with no laptops to talk through the problems. It is
inappropriate, however, to pair program, share code, or work through specific
problems in code together. You must acknowledge all help in your homework
submission.
Regrade policy : Once you receive your graded assignment (e.g., a homework
assignment), you have seven days to request a regrade in writing. After seven days,
there will be no regrades. You must give the instructor a written explanation of your
regrade request. We reserve the right to regrade the entire assignment.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Homework late day policy : All homeworks are due by 11:59pm on the due date.
Each student gets five late days total. A late day is an indivisible 24-hour unit. For
example, if the due date is 11:59pm on Monday, and you submit at 12:01am
Tuesday, that is 1 late day. Once you use up the five late days, a late assignment will
receive a grade of 0.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
(this is a rough schedule for the course; subject to change)
Week 1: Course Overview; Boolean Retrieval
Week 2: TF-IDF; Vector Space Model; BM25
Week 3: Link Analysis
Week 4: Evaluation of Search Engines
Week 5: Learning to Rank
Week 6: Recommender Systems (Content-Based; Collaborative Filtering)
Week 7: Recommender Systems (Matrix Factorization; Bayesian Personalized
Ranking)
Week 8: word2vec; Neural Ranking
Week 9: Spring Break
Week 10: Transformer; BERT-Based Ranking
Week 11: Neural Collaborative Filtering; Sequential Recommendation
Week 12: Large Language Models Basics
Week 13: Large Language Models with Search Engines
Week 14: Large Language Models for Ranking and Recommendation
Week 15: Wrap-up; Project Presentations
Important Dates
Homeworks
Homework 0: due Jan 26
Homework 1: due Feb 9
Homework 2: due Mar 2
Homework 3: due Mar 30
Homework 4: due Apr 20
Quizzes
Quiz 1: in the Feb 6 class
Quiz 2: in the Feb 27 class
Quiz 3: in the Mar 25 class
Quiz 4: in the Apr 15 class
Group Project
Proposal: due Mar 7
Presentation: in the Apr 20, Apr 22, Apr 24, and Apr 27 classes
Report: due May 2
Final: May 4
[16.0pt] AI Statement
AI policy : In principle you may submit AI-generated code, or code that is based on
or derived from AI-generated code, as long as this use is properly documented in
the comments: you need to include the prompt and the significant parts of the
response. AI tools may help you avoid syntax errors, but there is no guarantee that
the generated code is correct. It is your responsibility to identify errors in program
logic through comprehensive, documented testing. Moreover, generated code,
even if syntactically correct, may have significant scope for improvement, in
particular regarding separation of concerns and avoiding repetitions. The
submission itself must meet our standards of attribution and validation.