<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 629 Syllabus
Section 700 (54783)
Analysis of Algorithms
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting time:  asynchronous
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Andreas Klappenecker
Email:  andreas-klappenecker@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 418
Phone:  (979) 458-0608
Office Hours
W 10:00am-noon on zoom
Preferred Contact Method
email
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Analysis of Algorithms. (3-0). Credit 3. Concrete algorithm design and analysis;
abstract models to analyze the complexity of problems; NP-Completeness;
approximation and probabilistic algorithms. Prerequisite: Graduate classification.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Graduate classification.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Explain a variety of fundamental algorithms and algorithmic techniques
Select the most appropriate algorithm to solve a given problem
Analyze the correctness, runtime, and space complexity of an algorithm
Design new algorithms and modify existing ones using techniques discussed
in class
Recognize when a problem is likely intractable (has no efficient algorithm) and
be able to prove this by showing undecidability or NP-hardness
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Introduction to Algorithms, fourth edition
ISBN:  9780262367509
Authors:  Thomas H. Cormen, Charles E. Leiserson,
Ronald L. Rivest, Clifford Stein
Publisher:  MIT Press
Publication Date:  2022-04-05
URL for Resource:
https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?
direct=true&db=nlebk&AN=2932690&site=eds-
live&scope=site&authtype=shib&custid=s8516548&ebv=
EK&ppid=Page-__-1
Notes:
Freely available as an ebook from our library
Also, check daily:  https://canvas.tamu.edu/
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Your grade will be based on the following components:
exams 60%: There will be one midterm exam and one comprehensive final
exam each worth 30%. The exams will be given on canvas, and will be
proctored on zoom.
quizzes and exercises 10%: There will be online quizzes and exercises, each
consisting of a few simple questions. Your lowest grade in this component will
be dropped.
homework 30%: These are essay style assignments, for which you are
required to use the LaTeX typestting system to type in your answers. All
assignments can be found in canvas. Your lowest homework grade will be
dropped.
Final grades will be assigned according to this scale:
A: 90 and above, B: [80,90), C: [70,80), D: [60,70), F: below 60
A slight curve might be applied if the course average is low.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
All assignments must be submitted on canvas.
No late submissions will be accepted .
E-mail submissions will not be accepted and will be ignored without notice.
Work turned-in on time is eligible for partial credit.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Tentative Course Schedule
Week
Tentative Topic
Week 1 (1/12-)
Introduction, Review of Asymptotic
Analysis
Week 2 (1/19-)
Lower Bounds
Week 3 (1/26-)
Divide and Conquer
Week 4 (2/2-)
Divide and Conquer
Week 5 (2/9-)
Greedy Algorithms
Week 6 (2/16-)
Dynamic Programming
Week 7 (2/23-)
Amortized Analysis, Midterm 2/26
Week 8 (3/2-)
Graph Algorithms
Week 9 (3/9-)
Spring break. No classes.
Week 10 (3/16-)
Graph Algorithms
Week 11 (3/23-)
Randomized Algorithms
Week 12 (3/30-)
Randomized Algorithms
Week 13 (4/6-)
NP Completeness
Week 14 (4/13-)
NP Completeness, Approximation
Algorithms
Week 15 (4/20-)
Undecidability
Midterm exam:  Thursday, 2/26,  6:00pm, the exam is proctored on zoom
Final exam:  Thursday, 4/30, 6:00pm-7:00pm (or alternatively 10:00am-11:00am),
the final exam is proctored on zoom
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[16.0pt] AI Statement
The use of AI is strictly prohibited in this course.