<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] ISEN 425 Syllabus
Section 500 (53795)
Design and Analysis of Industrial Systems with Simulation
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: M
Start Time: 4:10PM
End Time: 6:00PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 211
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: W
Start Time: 4:10PM
End Time: 6:40PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 211
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Amarnath Banerjee
Email:  banerjee@tamu.edu
Office Location:  4041 ETB
Phone:  979-458-2341
Office Hours
M: 11:00 AM - noon
T: 1:00 PM - 2:00 PM
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Design and Analysis of Industrial Systems with Simulation. (2-3). Credit 3. In-depth
study into the design-modeling and subsequent analysis of contemporary
production/service systems; factory/service systems are modeled using the
ARENA/SIMAN V simulation-animation language; emphasis is placed on the critical
analysis of alternative flow designs of modeled systems using flow and economic
parameters to assess system improvement. Prerequisites: Grade of C or better in
ISEN 210 and ISEN 355.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
There is an approved change to the catalog description to reflect the move away
from the ARENA/SIMAN V simulation-automation language. The revised catalog
description is stated below:
In-depth study into the design-modeling and subsequent analysis of contemporary
production/service systems; factory/service systems are modeled using a modern
simulation software; emphasis is placed on the critical analysis of alternative flow
designs of modeled systems using flow and economic parameters to assess system
improvement.
We will be using the Simio simulation software in this course as a continuation of
the software used in the prerequisite course ISEN 355.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in ISEN 210 and ISEN 355.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
develop and analyze complex models for industrial engineering problems
using commercially available discrete event simulation software,
interpret simulation output using valid statistical methods and make
appropriate recommendations, and
analyze data to determine appropriate input distributions using valid
statistical methods.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Simio and Simulation - Modeling, Analysis, Applications - 7th Edition
Authors:  Jeffrey S. Smith and David T. Sturrock
Publication Date:  August 2024
Edition:  7th Edition
URL for Resource:  https://textbook.simio.com/SASMAA7/
Notes:
The book is available online at the Simio website.
This material Is: Recommended
Simulation Modeling with SIMIO: A Workbook
Authors:  Jeffrey A. Joines and Michael E. Kuhl
Publication Date:  2025
Edition:  6th Edition
URL for Resource:  https://textbook.simio.com/Workbook6/
Notes:
An excellent resource for learning more about building complex Simio models.
This material Is: Optional
Discrete-Event Simulation
Authors:  Jerry Banks, John S. Carson II, Barry L. Nelson, and David M. Nicol
Publisher:  Pearson-Prentice Hall
Publication Date:  2010
Edition:  Fifth Edition
Notes:
This is a good reference text
This material Is: Optional
Simulation Modeling and Analysis
Authors:  Averill M. Law
Publisher:  McGraw Hill
Publication Date:  2024
Edition:  6th Edition
Notes:
This is a good reference text for learning more about simulation theory.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Grade Components and Weights
There are three exams in the course. There will be weekly lab assignments, some
graded homework, regular quizzes, and a project.
Exam 1 and Exam 2 are each worth 10%. The lab exam is worth 30%.
The lab assignments together will be worth 15%. Submissions will not be
accepted after the deadline with the exception of a university excused
absence.
There will be regular quizzes during the semester. The weight of each quiz is
dependent on the number of questions in the quiz. All the quizzes together
will be worth 10%. Quizzes must be taken in the classroom during the
designated quiz time.
Attempting a quiz outside of the classroom is not permitted and will
be treated as a violation of the Aggie Honor Code.
Some of the homework will be collected and graded. The homework grade is
worth 5%.
The project will be worth 20%. More details about the project will be provided
during the semester.
Grading Policy
Grades assigned are: A for 90% - 100%, B for 80% - 89.9%, C for 70% - 79.9%, D for
60% - 69.9%, F for below 60%. Any possibility of a curve on grades will be
announced in the last few days of the semester.
Any disagreements regarding a grade received on any graded material must be
discussed within two business days of the return of the graded material.  No grade
will be changed beyond the two business days limit.
Grades will be maintained in the gradebook within Canvas. Please note that the
automated total and grade calculations on the Canvas gradebook are useless, and
you should not rely on them. Use your engineering/math skills to compute your
[11.0pt bold] score based on the weights described in the  Grade Components and Weights
section above.
[11.0pt bold] Note About Homework
There will be homework assignments that will be assigned regularly. Some of the
homework will be collected and graded. It is in your interest to work on the
homework problems and develop the solutions. The solutions will be posted  for
you to compare your work. You can expect to see quiz questions and exam
problems based on the homework problems.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late work is not accepted in this course.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Weekly schedule of topics
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Topic
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Topic
[11.0pt bold] Week 1 1/12/26 Review of discrete event simulation; system and model;
Analysis of Production System: Push/Pull/CONWIP for single
machine and flowline
[11.0pt bold] Week 2 1/19/26 No class meeting on Monday, January 19 [MLK Day]
Analysis of Production System: Push/Pull/CONWIP for single
machine and flowline
[11.0pt bold] Week 3 1/26/26 Exploring the use of sequences, basic nodes, transporters in
a production system
[11.0pt bold] Week 4 2/2/26   Handling queues; balking and reneging
[11.0pt bold] Week 5 2/9/26   Introduction to simulation-based optimization; use of
OptQuest; handling financial costs
[11.0pt bold] Week 6 2/16/26 Supply chain and inventory control using simulation
[11.0pt bold] Week 7 2/23/26 First Exam Monday, February 23
Supply chain and inventory control continued; ranking and
selection of scenarios; KN algorithm; using OptQuest to
optimize parameters; multi-objective functions; specifying
constraints
[11.0pt bold] Week 8 3/2/26   Exploring Tables, Relational Tables, Task Sequences, Material
Consumption and Production, Resources and Workers, Setup
Times and Material Replenishment
[11.0pt bold] Week of 3/9/26  Spring Break – no classes
[11.0pt bold] Week 9 3/16/26 Lab Exam Monday, March 16
Continuation of Tables, Relational Tables, Task Sequences,
Material Consumption and Production, Resources and
Workers, Setup Times and Material Replenishment
[11.0pt bold] Week 10
[11.0pt bold] 3/23/26
Exploring scheduling using Simio
[11.0pt bold] Week 11
[11.0pt bold] 3/30/26
Sub models: creating submodels for reuse
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Topic
[11.0pt bold] Week 12 4/6/26 No classes on April 4 and 6 due to instructor travel (to be
confirmed)
[11.0pt bold] Week 13
[11.0pt bold] 4/13/26
Sub classing: exploring subclassing of Simio objects to
customize requirements
[11.0pt bold] Week 14
[11.0pt bold] 4/20/26
[11.0pt bold] Second Exam Monday, April 20
[11.0pt bold] Subclassing continued;  Project Presentation and Report on
[11.0pt bold] April 22
[11.0pt bold] Week 15
[11.0pt bold] 4/27/26
Wrap up/summary of course on April 27.
NOTE: Some topics may be changed based on the pace of the class.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
Copyright Notice
All documents used in this course are copyrighted. Here, "documents" means all
materials generated for this class, including, but not limited to, syllabi, quizzes,
exams, problem sets, slide sets, and all materials appearing on CANVAS or sent to
you via email. Because these materials are copyrighted, you do not have the right
to copy any of them for any purpose other than your own personal academic use
unless I expressly grant permission. In particular, course materials may not be
given or sold to any non-profit or for-profit enterprise.
[11.0pt bold] Software
The Industrial and Systems Engineering Department uses Simio under a grant from
Simio LLC ( https://www.simio.com ). Although Simio is installed in the ISEN Cloud, I
strongly recommend that you install a copy of the software on your PC. You will
find the detailed instructions on Canvas and the Technology Support portion of this
syllabus. You will likely find this advantageous for working at home and in the
classroom.
Simio does not work with the Mac Operating System (MacOS), but some students
with Macs indicated that Simio worked well using Bootcamp, but I have no personal
experience with using Simio on a Mac. Simio has provided some helpful resources
for Mac users. This can be found at   https://www.simio.com/publications/simio-
for-mac/ .
Simio is available in the Engineering Desktop available through the Aggie Virtual
Desktop – see  https://service.tamu.edu/TDClient/36/Portal/KB/ArticleDet?ID=657
for more information.
Expectations
Students are expected to attend all class and lab meetings.
Students should come prepared to the class and lab meetings whenever
there are any assigned reading or review assignments.
Students are expected to bring their own computer for every class and lab
meeting.
Missed work due to unexcused absence will not be accepted.
Class Communication
Communication and announcements with the class will be maintained using email
and Canvas.
Most of the class communication will be via email through the TAMUDirect
mailing list maintained by the university. Students are expected to carefully
read all the emails in their entirety.
Some of the important announcements will also be posted in the
“Announcements” section of Canvas.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
According to the Texas A&M University Definitions of Academic Misconduct,
plagiarism is the appropriation of another person's ideas, processes, results or
words without giving appropriate credit ( aggiehonor.tamu.edu ). You should credit
your use of anyone else's words, graphic images, or ideas using standard citation
styles. Artificial Intelligence (AI) text generators and natural language processing
tools (colloquially, chatbots - such as ChatGPT), audio, computer code, video, and
image generators  should not be used for any work for this class without
explicit permission of the instructor  and appropriate attribution. This includes,
but is not limited to,
i. Creating or revising drafts
ii. Editing your work
iii. Reviewing a peer's work
This excludes pre-existing software additions such as spelling and grammar
checkers, which are acceptable.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
Students are expected to attend class in person and to complete all assignments.
Lab assignment and homework submissions and attempting a quiz after the posted
deadline will not be accepted unless there is a university excused absence.
Please note that the rule regarding job interviews is as follows: “Mandatory
interviews for permanent, full-time employment or full-time internships (including
those that are part of a cooperative education program) that have a duration of at
least 10 weeks, provided that such interviews are related to the student’s
academic program and provided that the interviews are fixed date by employer
policy and cannot be rescheduled. A student may not request excused absences for
employment or internship interviews for more than one scheduled class meeting in
one academic term.” Also, “Documentation from the employer must be provided 5
business days in advance.”
[16.0pt] Course Specific Makeup Work Policy
Students are expected to attend class in person and to complete all assignments.
Lab assignment and homework submissions and attempting a quiz after the posted
deadline will not be accepted unless there is a university excused absence.
Make-up exam will be only for students that have provided documentation
supporting their absence in accordance with the excused absence policy described
in Student Rule 7.