<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 435 Syllabus
Section 500 (38149)
Parallel Computing
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Credit Hours:  3
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Vivek Sarin
Email:  sarin@tamu.edu
Office Location:  415 Peterson
Phone:  979-458-2214
Office Hours
MW 3:30-4:30pm, via Zoom  https://tamu.zoom.us/j/99726975773 ; or by
appointment
Preferred Contact Method
Email, include 435-500 in the subject
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Parallel Computing. (3-0). Credit 3. Overview of parallel computing technology and
programming methods; includes multiprocessor architectures, programming tools,
parallel performance, parallel algorithms, and applications of parallel computing.
Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in CSCE 315 or CSCE 331; junior or senior
classification or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 315 or CSCE 331; junior
or senior classification or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
The main objective of this course is to provide an opportunity for our
undergraduate students to learn about parallel computing technology and to
develop programming skills on traditional and emerging platforms for parallel
computation. Upon successful completion of the course, a student:
will be able to design parallel algorithms and develop software
implementations on parallel computers;
will be able to analyze the performance of parallel implementations on
various parallel platforms; and
will know the architecture of modern parallel computing systems.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Optional
None
Notes:
Instructor will provide lecture videos, copies of lecture slides, and links to resources
on the internet on the course web site on Canvas.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Assignments and projects will be available on the course web site on Canvas and
submissions will have to be uploaded to Canvas.
Course grade will be assigned on the basis of quizzes (40%), assignments (60%). The
following scale will be used: A=90-100%, B=80-89%, C=70-79%, D=60-69%, F=0-
59%. Scores are rounded up to the nearest integer.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late assignments and projects are accepted with 10% penalty for each day late up
to a maximum of 3 days (e.g., a score of 80 will be reduced to 72 when submitted
within 24 hours after the deadline; it will be reduced to 64 when submitted
between 24 and 48 hours after the deadline).
Late quizzes will not be accepted.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Tentative Schedule
Week
Topics (tentative)
1
Orientation, Introduction to parallel computing
2
Parallel algorithm design
3, 4, 5
Programming for shared-memory
6, 7
Parallel architectures
8
Parallel algorithms I – Low level kernels
9
Programming for distributed-memory
10
Parallel algorithms II – Sorting
11, 12, 13
Emerging parallel platforms - GPUs
Week
Topics (tentative)
14
Parallel algorithms III - Graph algorithms
15
Other computing paradigms (e.g., Map-Reduce)