<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] ISEN 460 Syllabus
Section 901 (26588)
Capstone Senior Design
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: W
Start Time: 12:40PM
End Time: 3:50PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ETB 1034
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days:
Start Time: N/A
End Time: N/A
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Scott Miller
Email:  s.miller@tamu.edu
Office Location:  ETB 4074
Phone:  979-845-2795
Office Hours
MWF - 10-11:30am, TR - 1-2pm, or by appointment
Jose Vazquez
Email:  vazquez@tamu.edu
Office Location:  ETB 3030
Phone:  979-574-1714 cell
Office Hours
T - 11:30 AM-12:30 PM; or by appointment
Preferred Contact Method
email or text if urgent
JP Elizondo
Email:  jpe@tamu.edu
Office Location:  ETB 3030
Phone:  210-332-8608 cell
Office Hours
[13.0pt] TWF  - 11:30 am -12:30 pm
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Capstone Senior Design. (1-6). Credit 3. Engineering design including identification
of a problem; development, analysis and evaluation of alternative solutions; and
recommendations for and, where possible, development of systems improvement
tools; application of experience and training to provide a product or solution that
helps company clients; balancing client needs with academic requirements.
Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in ISEN 210, ISEN 330, ISEN 340, ISEN 350, ISEN
355 and ISEN 370; junior or senior classification.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in ISEN 210, ISEN 330, ISEN 340,
ISEN 350, ISEN 355 and ISEN 370; junior or senior classification.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
The focus for this course is the project each team takes on for a client and
enhancing each student’s communication skills. Students in this course are
expected to demonstrate the ABET-based educational outcomes listed below.
1.  an ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by
applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics;
2. an ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet
specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as
well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors;
3. an ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences;
4. an ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering
situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of
engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal
contexts;
5. an ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide
leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals,
plan tasks, and meet objectives;
6. an ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and
interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions; and
7. an ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate
learning strategies.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
UCRT - University Required Oral Communication
This is a C course, so to pass the course students must pass the communications
content. No matter how high the student’s grade, if the communications
component is not passed, the student fails the course.
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
No Textbook Needed
[16.0pt] Additional Instructional Materials
This Material is: Required
Additional phase-relevant resources will be provided via Canvas.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Grades will be a combination of team and individual grades as reflected in the
chart below. Communications content must be passed with a C or higher to
pass the class. Peer performance will be determined by an anonymous survey
at the end of the course.
[16.0pt] Course Grades
[14.0pt bold] Team Grades
[14.0pt bold] % of
[14.0pt bold] Final
[14.0pt bold] Grade
[14.0pt bold] Grade Type
[12.0pt] Project Charter
[12.0pt] 5%
[12.0pt] Technical
[12.0pt] Phase Presentations
[12.0pt] 1-3
[12.0pt] 15%
[12.0pt] (5%
[12.0pt] ea)
[12.0pt] Phase 4 Presentation
[12.0pt] 10%
[12.0pt] Project Showcase
[12.0pt] 5%
[12.0pt] Final Report
[12.0pt] 20%
[14.0pt bold] Individual  Grades
[12.0pt] Phase Presentations
[12.0pt] 15%
[12.0pt] Communication
[12.0pt] Writing Assignments
[12.0pt] 18%
[12.0pt] Writing
[12.0pt] Peer Performance
[12.0pt] 12%
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late work will not be accepted unless student rule 7 applies. Please notify the
instructors in advance if possible if student rule 7 will apply to an assignment.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Class dates and topics
Course
Schedule
[15.0pt bold] Section 901 Class Schedule [Wednesday]
[11.0pt bold] Phase
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] #
[11.0pt bold] Date
[11.0pt bold] Topic
[11.0pt bold] Phase 0
[11.0pt bold] 1
Jan-
14
Intro, Survey
[11.0pt bold] 2
Jan-
21
Teams, Project, Travel Information
[11.0pt bold] Phase 1
[11.0pt bold] Discover
[11.0pt bold] 3
Jan-
28
Phase 1 Kickoff
[11.0pt bold] 4
Feb-
4
Phase 1 Presentations
Group A
[11.0pt bold] 5
Feb-
11
Phase 1 Presentations
Group B
Course
Schedule
[11.0pt bold] Phase 2
[11.0pt bold] Define
[11.0pt bold] 6
Feb-
18
Phase 2 Kickoff
[11.0pt bold] 7
Feb-
25
Phase 2 Presentations
Group B
[11.0pt bold] 8
Mar-
4
Phase 2 Presentations
Group A
[11.0pt bold] Phase 3
[11.0pt bold] Develop
[11.0pt bold] 9
Mar-
18
Phase 3 Kickoff
[11.0pt bold] 10   Mar-
25
Phase 3 Presentations
Group A
[11.0pt bold] 11
Apr-
1
Phase 3 Presentations
Group B
[11.0pt bold] Phase 4
[11.0pt bold] Deliver
[11.0pt bold] 12
Apr-
8
Phase 4 Kickoff
[11.0pt bold] 14
Apr-
15
Phase 4 Presentations
Group B
[11.0pt bold] 15
Apr-
22
Phase 4 Presentations
Group A
Deliverable dates for assignments
Groups A and B
[11.0pt bold] Section 901 Deliverable Schedule: Group A
[10.0pt bold] Phase
[10.0pt bold] Deliverable
[10.0pt bold] Due Date
[10.0pt] Phase 0
[10.0pt] Student Survey
14-Jan
[10.0pt] Code of Conduct
27-Jan
[10.0pt] Phase 1
[10.0pt] Phase 1 Slide Deck
3-Feb
[10.0pt] Project Charter
6-Feb
[10.0pt] Writing Assignment 1
11-Feb
[10.0pt] Phase 2
[10.0pt] Phase 2 Slide Deck
3-Mar
[10.0pt] Writing Assignment 2
4-Mar
[10.0pt] Phase 3
[10.0pt] Phase 3 Slide Deck
24-Mar
[10.0pt] Writing Assignment 3
1-Apr
[10.0pt] Phase 4
[10.0pt] Phase 4 Slide Deck
21-Apr
[10.0pt] Writing Assignment 4
22-Apr
Groups A and B
[10.0pt] Big Deliverables
[10.0pt] Project Showcase
24-Apr
[10.0pt] Final Report
30-Apr
[11.0pt bold] Section 901 Deliverable Schedule: Group B
[10.0pt bold] Phase
[10.0pt bold] Deliverable
[10.0pt bold] Due Date
[10.0pt] Phase 0
[10.0pt] Student Survey
14-Jan
[10.0pt] Code of Conduct
27-Jan
[10.0pt] Phase 1
[10.0pt] Phase 1 Slide Deck
10-Feb
[10.0pt] Project Charter
13-Feb
[10.0pt] Writing Assignment 1
11-Feb
[10.0pt] Phase 2
[10.0pt] Phase 2 Slide Deck
24-Feb
[10.0pt] Writing Assignment 2
4-Mar
[10.0pt] Phase 3
[10.0pt] Phase 3 Slide Deck
30-Mar
[10.0pt] Writing Assignment 3
1-Apr
[10.0pt] Phase 4
[10.0pt] Phase 4 Slide Deck
14-Apr
[10.0pt] Writing Assignment 4
22-Apr
[10.0pt] Big Deliverables
[10.0pt] Project Showcase
24-Apr
[10.0pt] Final Report
30-Apr
[10.0pt] *** Individual Assignments
[16.0pt] AI Statement
With the emergence of artificial intelligence (AI) technologies, the ways in which we
define our creative processes continue to transform. AI generators are rapidly
evolving from simple editing for grammatical errors and spelling mistakes
(Grammarly, MS Word Spell Check) to sophisticated text production (ChatGPT,
Google Bard, etc.), as well as image, computer code, and audio generation. The
presence of such tools, however, does not replace our need to learn how to draft,
revise, and reflect on texts, programs, drawings and how to exercise information
literacy and personal responsibility in how we locate, evaluate, incorporate, and cite
primary/ secondary sources. For example, the Association for Writing Across the
Curriculum states the following: Writing to learn is an intellectual activity that is
crucial to the cognitive and social development of learners and writers. This vital
activity cannot be replaced by AI language generators (AWAC).
Engaging in the various aspects of creative pursuits (e.g., writing, coding, drawing) is
critical to education in a broad sense. While AI technologies will continue shaping
how we approach these creative tasks, the critical work of creativity relies on
integrity, originality, and ethical conduct in regard to appropriate representation as
an author or creator. Thus, submitting work with a significant percentage of AI-
generated content, unless otherwise permitted, can be considered academic
misconduct under Texas A&M University Student Rule 20. Students must therefore
cite the use of Generative AI tools and document what they have contributed to an
assignment.
You may use generative AI in this class with the following restrictions:
1. You may not divulge confidential client information to any AI model.
2. You must declare the AI model and its role in the work.
3. You must review and confirm all AI output.
[14.0pt] Course Details
Team Assignments:  The instructional team will assign teams based on student
input. Students who do not submit the course questionnaire by the established
deadline will be assigned to a project without their input.
Class Meetings:  Class attendance is required of all students for introductory (first
two weeks) and phase kick-off sessions (as noted on schedule). For team
presentation days, attendance is required for the entire class time for all team
members in the specified group. Attendance on presentation days for the alternate
group is allowed and encouraged.
Technical Review Presentations:  Technical review presentations are formal
(prepared slides and remarks), graded events with all team members presenting
and all team members participating. Every team member should contribute to
answering questions at the end of the presentation. During technical review
presentations, the lead instructor and teaching assistants will provide feedback on
the technical aspects of the project, and the communication instructors will provide
feedback on presentation design and delivery. Technical presentation slides must
be uploaded to Canvas no later than 11:59 PM the day prior to the technical review
session (per deliverables schedule).
Team Meetings:  Active engagement and participation are essential elements of the
capstone project experience. Students are expected to fully contribute to all team
activities, including meetings with sponsors, faculty advisors, and internal team
discussions. These interactions are vital to the success of the project and provide
opportunities to collaborate, problem-solve, and apply professional communication
skills. Ensuring meaningful participation in these engagements supports both
individual and team development throughout the course.
Engineering Project Showcase Video:  The Engineering Project Showcase Video is
a mandatory participation event for all teams and all team members. Each team will
prepare a video demonstrating their capstone project. Industry judges assess each
team’s work, and prize money is awarded to the top teams.
[14.0pt] Additional Information
The project sponsor is the client. This is the owner of the issue, problem, or
opportunity central to the project.
Each team is required to select a faculty advisor. The faculty advisor is a Texas A&M
faculty member who offers guidance on the project. Normally, the faculty advisor is
selected by the team for their expertise in the area of their project.
The course faculty includes the  lead instructor, communications instructors , and
teaching assistants . The lead instructor is responsible for the capstone design
program and for providing feedback to teams on the technical aspects of their
projects. The course writing and communication instructors are responsible for
executing the course’s communication and writing components. Teaching assistants
will also provide technical feedback as well as guidance on projects and
presentations throughout the course (i.e. in advance).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
As previously noted, class attendance is required of all students for introductory
(first two weeks) and phase kick-off sessions (as noted on schedule). For team
presentation days, attendance is required for the entire class time for all team
members in the specified group.
Lack of attendance/participation (including consistent tardiness) as noted by the
instructors or peers (on the peer evaluation) will result in a reduction of the peer
performance grade.