<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] ISEN 302 Syllabus
Section 503 (11195)
Economic Analysis of Engineering Projects
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 1:50PM
End Time: 2:40PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 344
Credit Hours:  2
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Annette Rodgers
Email:  amrodgers@tamu.edu
Office Location:  ETB 4040
Phone:  979-845-2358
Office Hours
[11.0pt bold] M & W by appointment/ Tue 10:00 am – 1:00 -   Zoom by appointment only
Preferred Contact Method
email
Biography
[12.0pt] Mrs. Rodgers is an experienced professional with 38 years in space operations,
[12.0pt] hardware design, and multidisciplinary engineering. I’ve trained astronauts and
[12.0pt] engineers for Space Shuttle and ISS operations, and served as a flight controller
[12.0pt] for payload operations. I spent 18 years as a liaison for the Japan Aerospace
[12.0pt] Exploration Agency (JAXA) to the ISS, managing scientific payloads and
[12.0pt] leading the installation of the Japanese Segment. As Vice President at JAMSS
[12.0pt] America, I oversaw operations, technical programs, and ISO 9001 certification.
[12.0pt] I’ve also managed NASA contracts for eVTOL technology development.
[12.0pt] Currently, I teach Engineering Economic Analysis as an Associate Professor of
[12.0pt] Practice at Texas A&M University.
Socials
N/A
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Economic Analysis of Engineering Projects. (2-0). Credit 2. Principles of economic
equivalence; time value of money; analysis of single and multiple investments;
comparison of alternatives; capital recovery and after-tax analysis of economic
projects. Prerequisites: Grade of C or better in MATH 152 or MATH 172; also taught
at Qatar campus.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
MATH 152 or MATH 172 and ability to use Microsoft Excel.
[13.0pt] Required math pre-requisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in MATH 152 or MATH 172; also
taught at Qatar campus.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Make engineering decisions based on an economic analysis of alternatives
Explain and demonstrate the principles of economic equivalence and time value of
money
Formulate and solve equations using interest factors and formulas
Distinguish between nominal and effective interest rates and convert between them
Identify and determine constituent cash flows of single and/or multiple investments
Examine, diagram, and compare investment alternatives on an economic basis using
appropriate terminology
Conclude and justify the best investment alternative(s) based on appropriate analysis
Develop and construct spreadsheet models to investigate alternatives
Determine and utilize appropriate capital recovery methods for alternatives
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Engineering Economic Analysis (14 th Edition)
ISBN:  9780190063467 e-version
Authors:  D. Newnan, T. G. Eschenbach, J. P. Lavelle, and N. Lewis (February 19,
2019)
Publisher:  Oxford University Press
Publication Date:  (February 19, 2019)
Edition:  14th Edition
URL for Resource:  https://www.vitalsource.com/products/engineering-economic-
analysis-don-newnan-ted-eschenbach-v9780190931940?term=9780190063467
Notes:
We have been notified that this textbook is no longer available in print version. However, the
edition is available with a new (ISBN: 9780190063467) as it is now included as a pack and
contains an access code. The option I recommend is to buy the digital version of the 14 th
edition, at the bookstore or anywhere you can find it at a lesser price. I am not aware of what
the bookstore charges for the book, but I am adding a link below where you may purchase it
for $49.99 if that price is better:
https://www.vitalsource.com/products/engineering-economic-analysis-don-newnan-ted-
eschenbach-v9780190931940?term=9780190063467
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Homework assignments are due on the due date posted on Canvas. Please submit all work
[11.0pt bold] through Canvas. You should submit your work on time.  Late submissions are penalized
[11.0pt bold] 10% per each late day and are only accepted on the week the work is due, after that, no
[11.0pt bold] late work will be accepted.  Please note that homework assignments have different value and
weight, so please do not assume they are all equal. In addition, there might be in-class
assignments / checking for understanding, short quizzes, in-class quizzes, three tests during
the semester, and one special assignment worth a test grade. There is NO FINAL for my
class. You will be given more information after the semester begins. No make-up
examinations will be allowed unless prior arrangements have been made, or if you have a
university accepted excuse. Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused
[11.0pt bold] absence is not considered “late” and is exempted from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ) ,
but this HAS to be pre-arranged with the professor .
The components of the course grade and their weights are as follows: Assignments, 20%;
Quizzes, 20%; Tests, 60%. The university letter grade policy is followed (>=90%: A; 80-
89%: B; 70 – 79%: C; 60 – 69%: D; below 60%: F.)
There will be no curve at the end of this semester, so please make sure you submit your work
on time!
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[11.0pt bold] The course website will be maintained through  http://canvas.tamu.edu/ .  This site will contain
announcements and other information concerning the course. In addition, it will be used to
distribute class materials (homework assignment, notes,) and grades. Check the website
regularly, I will send last minute information and communication through Canvas in the
[11.0pt bold] “ Announcements ” section of Canvas. Any information posted there will be as valid as if it was
mentioned in class.
It is expected that all work submitted in this class will be done individually. If you got any
help with homework, please cite that person in your write-up. For example, “I thank John
Smith for helping me solve this problem.” If you worked together with one or more other
people, then each of you should cite the other(s).
A major reason for taking this class is to prepare all engineering majors for the Fundamentals
of Engineering (FE) exam, as well as to prepare Industrial Engineering majors for other ISEN
courses. To this end, students are strongly encouraged to use calculators that are approved by
[11.0pt bold] NCEES for use on the FE. The NCEES website ( http://ncees.org/exams/calculator-policy/ )
provides a list of the current approved calculator brands and models.
[11.0pt bold] All exams are administered through Canvas using Respondus proctoring software. They
[11.0pt bold] will be closed-book/notes/smartphone. Calculator is allowed if needed. If you have
[11.0pt bold] requested special accommodations, you DO NOT need to schedule your test through the
[11.0pt bold] testing center. I will add any extra time as required. Please come speak to me if you have
[11.0pt bold] questions.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Time durations for the topics are tentative and depend on class responses.
Week 1 (01/12) Introduction / Ch. 1 Making Economic Decisions
[11.0pt bold] Week 2 (01/19)  MLK   Holiday (01/19- no school)
[11.0pt bold] (01/14) Ch. 2 Engineering Costs and Estimating
Week 3 (01/26) Ch. 2 Engineering Costs and Estimating
Week 4 (02/02) Ch. 3 Interest and Equivalence
[11.0pt bold] Week 5 (02/09) Ch. 4 Equivalence for Repeated Cash Flows
[11.0pt bold] Week 6 (02/16) Ch. 4 /Review  Exam. 1: Test Chapters 1 - 4 (02/18)
Week 7 (02/23) Ch. 5 Present Worth Analysis
Week 8 (03/02) Ch. 6 Annual Cash Flow Analysis
[11.0pt bold] Week 9 (03/09)  Spring Break - No school
Week 10 (03/16) Ch. 7 Rate of Return Analysis / ABET Assignment (Due 03/22)
[11.0pt bold] Week 11 (03/23) E xam. 2: Test Chapters 5 - 7 (03/23)  / Ch. 8 Choosing the Best Alternative
Week 12 (03/30) Ch. 9 Other Analysis Techniques / Chapter 11 Depreciation
Week 13 (04/06) Ch. 11 Depreciation
Week 14 (04/13) CH 12 Income taxes for Corporations
[11.0pt bold] Week 15 (04/20)  Exam. 3: Test Chapters 8 - 12 (04/20)
[11.0pt bold] Week 16 (04/27)    Special Topic / Last day of Class 4/27 (No testing allowed)
Week 17 (05/04) Finals Week
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[11.0pt bold] Outside of my office hours, you MUST set up an appointment.  If you would like to set up
a meeting, please email me 24 hours before the meeting time and provide a few times that
might work with your schedule. I will try to find a time that works for both. You should
prepare questions before we meet.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Intellectual honesty is vital to an academic community and for my fair evaluation of
your work. All work submitted in this course must be your own, completed in
accordance with the University’s academic regulations. You may not engage in
unauthorized collaboration or make use of ChatGPT or other AI composition
software.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
Attendance is mandatory.  Students enrolled in the online section are expected to
complete the weekly work at the same pace as the live sections, unless they have a
university approved excuse.