<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 689 Syllabus
Section 605 (59358)
Special Topics in...
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 08:00AM
End Time: 09:15AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  HRBB 126
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Special Topics in... Credit 0 to 4. Selected topics in an identified area of computer
science. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisite: Approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
Numerical methods and optimization techniques prominent in graph analysis and network
science; eigenvector computations, spectral graph theory, matrix factorizations, constrained
optimization methods, gradient methods, linear least squares, graph-based clustering,
centrality measures in network analysis, approximation algorithms for graph problems
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Formulate common data and graph analysis tasks as optimization problems.
Identify and select appropriate algorithms and computational techniques to solve
different classes of optimization problems.
Analyze algorithms for solving optimization problems in network science and prove
their convergence properties.
Construct rigorous proofs to establish theoretical guarantees for algorithmic
techniques and refine proof-writing skills.
Evaluate the strengths, limitations, and pitfalls of different computational methods
when addressing practical tasks.
Examine and interpret specific network science problems and applications, and relate
them to the fundamental tools taught in the course.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Optimization for data analysis
Authors:  Wright, Stephen J., and Benjamin Recht
This material Is: Recommended
Numerical optimization
Authors:  Nocedal, Jorge, and Stephen J. Wright
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Quizzes  15%
Homework assignments 30%
Paper presentation  20%
Final Project 35%
The grading scale will be A ≥ 90% > B ≥ 80% > C ≥ 70% > D ≥ 60% > F.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not considered late
work and is exempted from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
For every homework assignment, there will be a 6 hour grace period after the due time of the
homework. Any homework assignment turned in after the time it is due, but before the 6
hour grace period has expired, will be accepted without penalty. Homework will not be
accepted after the grace period has expired.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Schedule of
Week
Topic
​
1
Numerical linear algebra and optimization
fundamentals
Week
Topic
2
Graph analysis and PageRank linear system
3
Eigenvectors and Eigenvalues
4
Spectral graph theory
5
Fundamentals of constrained optimization
6
Linear programming in network science
7
Research project topic exploration week
8
Dense subgraph detection
9
[11.0pt bold] Spring break
10
Vertex cover and approximation algorithms
11
Graph clustering methods
12
Special topics in network science
13
Student presentations and final project work
14
Student presentations and final project work
15
Student presentations and final project work
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[12.0pt] Policy on Collaboration and Outside Resources
Students are allowed, under the following guidelines, to consult outside sources and discuss
homework problems with other students.
1.  Writing.  The write-up must be drafted by the student and in the student’s own words.
Students should not have another person/entity do the writing of any substantive
portion of an assignment for them, which includes hiring a person or a company to
write assignments and using artificial intelligence tools like ChatGPT.
2.  Attribution.   Students are required to list all resources and collaborators. This includes
any webpages, textbooks, discussions with other students in the course or people
outside the course, and any type of AI tool used (which should only be used subject to
the AI guidelines below). Discussing problems includes both receiving help or giving
help of any kind.
3.  Not soliciting answers online.  Posting homework questions or soliciting help in online
sites or forums is strictly prohibited. While reading an existing post or article about a
similar problem is allowed, creating a new post asking for the answer to your question
is not allowed.
Some of this text is  adapted from University of Massachusetts Amherst GenAI syllabus
statements.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Students are allowed Generative AI tools (which includes ChatGPT) as long as they are used to
gain  knowledge about a topic or problem and not used to simply generate answers which are
turned in as the student’s own work. AI tools are considered outside resources and their use
should follow the Policy on Collaboration and Outside Resources. Additionally, use of AI tools
is subject to the following requirements:
Students are not allowed to directly copy-paste or otherwise directly upload any
portion of the class lecture notes or homework questions as a prompt to an AI tool.
Note that the lecture notes and homework sets are copyrighted material.
The student is responsible for writing up all solutions to their homework. Directly
turning in text generated by an AI tool, even if it is slightly modified, is a violation of
academic integrity. Using AI tools to spell-check, grammar-check, or slightly refine
text written by the student (e.g., for better clarity or conciseness) is permitted.
The student must acknowledge at the top of every homework whether AI tools were
used, and if so which ones.
The above guidelines specify what is  allowed , but this is neither an encouragement nor an
endorsement of using AI tools in any way. All assignments in the class are explicitly designed
to be solvable using only the lectures and the textbook readings. Students are encouraged to
simply not use AI tools to for this particular course.