<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 411 Syllabus
Section 550 (51250)
Design and Analysis of Algorithms
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 09:35AM
End Time: 10:50AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  CLB 114
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Han Tran
Email:  hantran@tamu.edu
Office Location:  ECRB 309D
Phone:  409-740-5517
Office Hours
MW 11:00 AM - 12:00 PM
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Design and Analysis of Algorithms. (3-0). Credit 3. Study of computer algorithms for
numeric and non-numeric problems; design paradigms; analysis of time and space
requirements of algorithms; correctness of algorithms; NP-completeness and
undecidability of problems. Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in CSCE 221 and
CSCE 222; junior or senior classification or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 221 and
CSCE 222/ECEN 222; junior or senior classification or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of the course, students will be able to:
Explain a variety of fundamental algorithms and algorithmic techniques
Select the most appropriate algorithm to solve a given problem
Analyze the correctness, runtime, and space complexity of an algorithm
Design new algorithms and modify existing ones using techniques discussed
in class
Recognize when a problem is likely intractable (has no efficient algorithm)
and be able to prove this by showing undecidability or NP-hardness
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Introduction to Algorithms, fourth edition
ISBN:  9780262046305
Authors:  Thomas H. Cormen, Charles E. Leiserson,
Ronald L. Rivest, Clifford Stein
Publisher:  MIT Press
Publication Date:  2022-04-05
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Standard Letter Grading Scale:  A >= 90 > B >= 80 > C >= 70 > D >= 60 > F
Graded components:
Exams - 45%: There will be 3 (2 midterms + 1 final) equally weighted exams
Homework - 40%: There will be 8 equally weighted homework
Recall Practices - 10%: Short quizzes to practice recalling information
Class activities - 5%: We will use different types of activities to help you better
understand the concepts and connect with the materials in class.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Exams: Make-up tests will only be given if the student has an excused
absence (either university-excused or instructor-excused) with supporting
documentation.
Homework: Assignments turned in after the posted deadline will have a
penalty applied of 5% per day late.
Recall Practice and In-Class Activities: These are completed in class and thus
cannot be accepted late. They may be excused if a student has an excused
absence (either university-excused or instructor-excused) with supporting
documentation.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Below is the planned but tentative schedule of topics and major assignments/exams. Note
that there will be homework assignments, recall practice, and in-class activities throughout
as well. All assignment and exam details will be communicated via Canvas.
Week 1 (January 12): Introduction, Asymptotic Analysis Review (Module 1)
Week 2 (January 19): Lower Bound on Sorting (Module 2)
Week 3 (January 26):  Divide and Conquer (Module 3)
Week 4 (February 2): Divide and Conquer (Module 3), Dynamic Programming
(Module 4)
Week 5 (February 9): Dynamic Programming (Module 4)
Week 6 (February 16):  Exam 1 , Greedy Algorithms (Module 5)
Week 7 (February 23): Greedy Algorithms (Module 5), Amortized Analysis
(Module 6)
Week 8 (March 2): Disjoint Sets (Module 7), Randomized Algorithms (Module
8)
Week of March 9-13: Spring Break - No classes
Week 9 (March 16): Randomized Algorithms (Module 8), Graph Algorithms
(Module 9)
Week 10 (March 23):  Exam 2 , Graph Algorithms (Module 9)
Week 11 (March 30): Graph Algorithms (Module 9)
Week 12 (April 6): Complexity Theory (Module 10)
Week 13 (April 13): Complexity Theory (Module 10), Approximation Algorithms
(Module 11)
Week 14 (April 20): Undecidability (Module 12), Semester Review
Week 15 (April 26):  Final Exam
Important dates:
Exam 1: Tuesday February 17, 2026, in class
Exam 2: Tuesday March 24, 2026, in class
Final Exam: Thursday April 30, 2026, 12:30 pm - 2:30 pm
[16.0pt] AI Statement
This course assumes that all work submitted by students will be generated by the students
themselves. Students should not have another person/entity do the writing of any
substantive portion of an assignment for them, which includes hiring a person or a
company to write assignments and using artificial intelligence tools like ChatGPT.
[14.0pt] Academic Integrity Statements and Policy
[11.0pt bold] Texas A&M at Galveston
You can learn more about the Honor Council Rules and Procedures as well as your rights
and responsibilities at  tamug.edu/HonorSystem.