<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] ISEN 616 Syllabus
Section 600 (39775)
Design and Analysis of Industrial Experiments
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MWF
Start Time: 08:00AM
End Time: 08:50AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 211
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Rui Tuo
Email:  ruituo@tamu.edu
Office Location:  ETB 4012
Phone:  979-458-2345
Office Hours
9:30-11 am MW or by appointment
Preferred Contact Method
Email
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Design and Analysis of Industrial Experiments. (3-0). Credit 3. Fundamental theory,
concepts and procedures required for industrial experimental design, statistical
data analysis, and model building, with emphasis on engineering formulations and
applications; one-factor experiments with and without restrictions on
randomization, treatment comparison procedures, Latin and other squares,
factorial experiments, full and fractional two-level factorial experiments, blocking in
factorial designs, response surface methodologies and introduction to Taguchi
methods. Prerequisite: STAT 212 or STAT 601.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  STAT 212 or STAT 601.
[12.0pt bold] Participants will be assumed to have basic knowledge in statistics, including
[12.0pt bold] parameter estimation, hypothesis testing and confidence intervals. Read the pre-
[12.0pt bold] course reading materials to refresh your knowledge.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Understand formulations, concepts, and analytical procedures for design and
analysis of industrial experiments;
Understand fundamental principles of design and off-line experimentation
techniques;
Apply design tools in industrial applications;
Evaluate data-collecting, and experiment planning capability.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Experiments: Planning, Analysis and Optimization, 3nd Edition (by C. F. Jeff Wu and
Mike Hamada), 2021, John Wiley.
Notes:
[12.0pt bold] Thanks to the support of Texas A&M University Libraries, you can access the Wu-
[12.0pt bold] Hamada textbook for free:
[12.0pt] http://proxy.library.tamu.edu/login?
[12.0pt] url=https://app.knovel.com/hotlink/toc/id:kpEPAOE002/experiments-planning-
[12.0pt] analysis?kpromoter=marc
This material Is: Recommended
R
Notes:
[12.0pt] R statistical software package will be used for the example discussed in class, home
[12.0pt] assignments and examination. Please install the R software on your laptop
[12.0pt] from  http://cran.r-project.org .  You will use this software for homework assignments.
This material Is: Optional
Design and Analysis of Experiments with R. (by Lawson, John), 2014. CRC press.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[12.0pt] Grades assigned are A for 90%–100%, B for 80%–89.9%, C for 70%–
[12.0pt] 79.9%, D for 60%–69.9% and F for less than 60%.
[12.0pt] Any disagreements regarding a grade received on any graded material
[12.0pt] must be discussed within two business days of the return of the
[12.0pt] graded material. No grade will be changed beyond the two business
[12.0pt] days limit.
[12.0pt] Grades will be maintained in the gradebook within Canvas.
[14.0pt] Grading components:
[12.0pt] Homework – 10%
[12.0pt] Exam 1 – 20%
[12.0pt] Exam 2 – 20%
[12.0pt] Final Exam  – 30%
[12.0pt] Group Project – 20%
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[12.0pt] Homework will be released on Canvas and is due on the designated. Late homework
[12.0pt] will be docked by 15% per every day it is late. No extensions will be made if the due
[12.0pt] date is your job interview day/exam day/holiday/etc. For homework before two exams
[12.0pt] (I will remind you which ones are those), no late homework will be accepted. If you
[12.0pt] would like to have your homework or exam re-graded, you have to do so within 10
[12.0pt] days from the time when the homework/exam is returned to you.
[12.0pt] Description of the project tasks will be announced on Canvas. Project report is due on
[12.0pt] the designated date. Late project report will be docked by 15% per every day it is late
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[14.0pt] Course Contents/Topics
[12.0pt] 1.  Basic principles and introduction to regression analysis
[12.0pt] 2.  Experiments with a single factor, analysis of variance
[12.0pt] 3.  Experiments with more than one factor, blocking, analysis of variance
[12.0pt] 4.  Factorial experiments at two levels, comparison with “one-factor-at-a-
[12.0pt] time” plans, analysis of location and dispersion, choice of optimal
[12.0pt] blocking schemes
[12.0pt] 5.  Fractional factorial experiments at two levels, maximum resolution and
[12.0pt] minimum aberration for choosing optimal designs, choice of optimal
[12.0pt] blocking schemes
[12.0pt] 6.  Orthogonal arrays
[12.0pt] 7.  Introduction to fractional factorial experiments at three levels
[12.0pt] 8.  Variation reduction, robust parameter design for product and process
[12.0pt] improvement
[14.0pt] Course Schedule
[12.0pt] Week 1  Topic 1
[12.0pt] Week 2  Topic 2
[12.0pt] Weeks 4-5  Topic 3
[12.0pt] Weeks 6-8  Topic 4
[12.0pt] Week 9 Spring break
[12.0pt] Weeks 10-11  Topic 5
[12.0pt] Week 12  Topic 6
[12.0pt] Week 13-14 Topic 7
[12.0pt] Week 15 Topic 8
[14.0pt] EXAM SCHEDULE
[12.0pt bold] Exam 1 : Friday February 13, in class.
[12.0pt bold] Exam 2 : Friday April 17, in class.
[12.0pt bold] Final Exam:  Thursday April 30, 10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. (noon)
[16.0pt] AI Statement
According to the Texas A&M University Definitions of Academic Misconduct, plagiarism is the
appropriation of another person's ideas, processes, results or words without giving
appropriate credit ( aggiehonor.tamu.edu ). You should credit your use of anyone else's words,
graphic images, or ideas using standard citation styles. AI text generators (ChatGPT, Google
Bard, etc.) should not be used for any work for this class without explicit permission of the
instructor and appropriate attribution. This includes, but is not limited to:
Creating or revising drafts
Editing your work
Reviewing a peer's work
This excludes pre-existing software additions such as spelling and grammar checkers, which
are acceptable.
Such use of AI text generators in this manner could be considered plagiarism and cheating
according to Student Rule 20. More information may also be found
at  https://aggiehonor.tamu.edu  or you may contact your instructor if you have questions.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
Class attendance will be taken for quality assessment purpose.