<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 482 Syllabus
Section 937 (42646)
Senior Capstone Design
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 08:00AM
End Time: 08:25AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  EABA 118
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 08:30AM
End Time: 11:00AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  EABA 118
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Tung Nguyen
Email:  tung@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 114
Phone:  9364192495
Office Hours
1:45 - 2:45 pm Monday
Preferred Contact Method
Email
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Senior Capstone Design. (1-6). Credit 3. Development of system integration skills for
solving real-world problems in computer science; significant team software project
that uses integration of advanced concepts across computer science
specializations; projects require design, implementation, documentation and
demonstration, as well as design methodology, management process and
teamwork. Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in CSCE 411, and CSCE 315 or CSCE
331; senior classification; also taught at Galveston campus.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 411, and CSCE 315 or
CSCE 331; senior classification; also taught at Galveston campus.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Analyze a complex computing problem and apply principles of computing
and other relevant disciplines to identify solutions.
Design, implement and evaluate a computing-based solution to meet a given
set of computing requirements in the context of the program's discipline.
Communicate effectively in a variety of professional contexts.
Recognize professional responsibilities and make informed judgements in
computing practice based on legal and ethical principles.
Collaborate effectively as a member or leader of a team engaged in activities
appropriate to the program's discipline.
Apply computer science theory and software implementation fundamentals
to produce computing-based solutions.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
UCRT - University Required Oral Communication
[11.0pt bold] To receive C credit for this course, you must pass the C component, with the C course
[11.0pt bold] communication requirement below:
[11.0pt bold] A minimum of  35% of your final grade  is based on written and oral communication
assignments.
[11.0pt bold] Of this communication component,  at least 70% is based on individually written
[11.0pt bold] work and individual public speaking ; group work does not count toward this
standard.
[11.0pt bold] To receive C credit, students must pass both the written and public speaking
[11.0pt bold] components of the course.  Failure to pass either component will result in failing the
course, regardless of performance on other assignments.
[11.0pt bold] Each student will produce at least 1250 words of individually written work and
[11.0pt bold] deliver a minimum of 5 minutes of individual public speaking.
Assignments fulfilling this requirement include individual progress reports, project
proposals, final technical documentation, and individual presentations or
demonstrations.
Resumes and related materials are accepted only if specific to the major; take-home
essay exams may count if they allow drafting and revision. Oral presentation slides,
scripts, web sites, and posters count when accompanied by individual presentations.
[11.0pt bold] No more than  10% of the communication grade may be assessed by undergraduate aides ,
and all grading by aides is supervised by the instructor.
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Design for Electrical and Computer Engineers: Theory
Concepts and Practice
Authors:  Ralph Ford, Chris Coulston
Publisher:  Learning Solutions
Publication Date:  2005-03-31
This material Is: Recommended
The Five Dysfunctions of a Team
ISBN:  9781038707789
Authors:  Patrick M Lencioni
Publication Date:  2024-09-12
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
The final grade you will receive in the class will be based on points accumulated
during the semester. The grading scale is as follows: F < 60%  ≤  D < 70%  ≤  C < 80%  ≤
B < 90%  ≤  A
Course project 1: 25%. Due 6th week.
Course project 2: 30%. Due 10th week.
Course project 3: 35%. Due 14th week.
Attendance: 10%.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late work policy is defined as submitting a deliverable after the established
deadline. Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is
not considered late work and is exempted from the late work policy (Student Rule
7).
Late work is accepted but deducted 0.5% per late hour.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Course schedule
Time
Activity
Week 1-2
Team formation and project topic
selection
Week 3-6
Iteration 1
Week 7-10
Iteration 2
Week 11-14
Iteration 3
Week 15
Final presentation
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[12.0pt] Course Expectations
Course expectations, in the form of a course appreciative agreement, will be reviewed and
agreed to in the first 2 weeks of class.
[11.0pt bold] The course provides  direct instruction in writing and public speaking  through lectures,
workshops, peer review, assignment models, and opportunities for practice and revision.
[11.0pt bold] Formative feedback  will be given on both writing and speaking assignments prior to final
grading, and students are expected to revise and improve major submissions and
presentations in response to instructor and peer evaluations.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Writing: Use of AI tools, including ChatGPT, is permitted in this course for students who wish to
use them. To adhere to our scholarly values, students must cite any AI-generated material that
informed their work (this includes in-text citations and/or use of quotations, and in your
reference list). Using an AI tool to generate content without proper attribution qualifies as
academic dishonesty.
See  https://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/qanda/data/faq/topics/Documentation/faq0422.
html  for information how to properly cite AI tools. (adapted from University of Massachusetts
Amherst,  https://cte.tamu.edu/getmedia/1d5e4ef6-97f1-4065-987f-3c9dfecbb7bd/TAMU-
CTE_GenAI-SyllabusStatementConsiderations.pdf )
Computer Code. In principle you may submit AI-generated code, or code that is based on or
derived from AI-generated code, as long as this use is properly documented in the comments:
you need to include the prompt and the significant parts of the response. AI tools may help
you avoid syntax errors, but there is no guarantee that the generated code is correct. It is your
responsibility to identify errors in program logic through comprehensive, documented testing.
Moreover, generated code, even if syntactically correct, may have significant scope for
improvement, in particular regarding separation of concerns and avoiding repetitions. The
submission itself must meet our standards of attribution and validation.(from Boris Steipe
(2023) “Syllabus Resources”. The Sentient Syllabus Project  http://sentientsyllabus.org  .)
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
[11.0pt bold] Attendance is important.  Not attending weekly class meetings harms the other members of
your group and makes it much more difficult for the instructor to assess your contributions to
the group effort. Due to the undue burden your frequent absences have on the rest of the
[11.0pt bold] team,  more than five unexcused absences are an automatic failure .
The instructors will evaluate your attendance through frequent quizzes, meetings,
participation in the discussions, participation in assignments, and/or contributions to the
team. Upon instructors’ discretion, arriving to class late (> 5 minutes late), leaving early (> 5
minutes before class end), and/or not participating (e.g., not taking a quiz, not being present
for a status meeting, not submitting in class work, and/or doing work not related to the class)
can be considered an unexcused absence, depending on the circumstances. Oversleeping, a
term paper due, an exam to cram for, etc., are not valid reasons. The instructor reserves the
right to determine what constitutes a “valid reason” on a case-by-case basis.
Absence / lateness during days in which teams may need to work in a remote location to
accomplish certain assignments (e.g., presenting your work outside of class, interviewing
experts, meeting with mentors, accessing technologies outside of the classroom, etc.) count
toward the 5 unexcused absences, unless the absence / lateness are approved by the
instructor in advance. Students are expected to meet instructor’s requirements for check in,
activity reporting requirements, and/or timely submission of-class assignments.
You are responsible for monitoring / tracking your unexcused absences.
Students experiencing personal injury or illness that is too severe for the student to attend
class qualify for an excused absence (see  Student Rule 7, Section 7.2.2 ) assuming that
documentation and notification guidelines are followed.