<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 120 Syllabus
Section 518 (50487)
Program Design and Concepts
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MWF
Start Time: 12:40PM
End Time: 1:30PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 244
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: W
Start Time: 09:10AM
End Time: 10:00AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 598
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Zbigniew Leyk (Sections 517, 518, 519, 520, 521, 522)
Email:  zleyk@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 117
Phone:  979-845-4908
Office Hours
[13.0pt] Follow   link   to  “ Office   Hours ”  under  “ Student   Resources ”  on   the
[13.0pt] course   Canvas   homepage .
Preferred Contact Method
email
Calvin Beideman (Sections 500, 501, 502, 503, 504, 505)
Email:  beideman@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 113
Phone:  979-845-2479
Office Hours
Follow link to “Office Hours” under “Student Resources” on the course Canvas
homepage.
Amit Merchant (Sections 506, 507, 508)
Email:  amit.merchant@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 112
Phone:  979-458-6817
Office Hours
[13.0pt] Follow   link   to  “ Office   Hours ”  under  “ Student   Resources ”  on   the
[13.0pt] course   Canvas   homepage .
Philip Ritchey (Sections 511, 512, 513, 514, 515, 516)
Email:  pcr@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 423
Phone:  979-845-3510
Office Hours
[13.0pt] Follow   link   to  “ Office   Hours ”  under  “ Student   Resources ”  on   the
[13.0pt] course   Canvas   homepage .
Shawna Thomas (Sections 200, 509, 510)
Email:  sthomas@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 319
Phone:  979-862-8877
Office Hours
Follow link to “Office Hours” under “Student Resources” on the course
Canvas homepage.
Han Tran (Sections 250, 550)
Email:  hantran@tamu.edu
Office Location:  SAGC 707
Phone:  409-740-5517
Office Hours
[13.0pt] Follow   link   to  “ Office   Hours ”  under  “ Student   Resources ”  on   the
[13.0pt] course   Canvas   homepage .
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Program Design and Concepts. (3-1). Credit 3. Extension of prior programming
knowledge and creation of computer programs that solve problems; use of the C++
language; application of computational thinking to enhance problem solving;
analysis of, design of and implementation of computer programs; use of basic and
aggregate data types to develop functional and object oriented solutions;
development of classes that use dynamic memory and avoid memory leaks; study
of error handling strategies to develop more secure and robust programs.
Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in ENGR 102, CSCE 110, CSCE 111, CSCE 206 or
PHYS 150.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in ENGR 102, CSCE 110,
CSCE 111, CSCE 206 or PHYS 150.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, you will be able to:
Develop  and apply algorithmic reasoning to solve complex problems.
Explain
common programming concepts including abstraction, information
hiding, object-oriented decomposition, and recursion,
control structures including sequence, selection, iteration, and function
invocation, and
data types including arrays, vectors, linked lists, structs, and classes.
Analyze  a computing problem,  evaluate  different programming design
choices, and  develop  a program to solve the problem.
Write  documented code that follows common code readability practices and
uses strategies to reduce and address errors.
Analyze  code with debugging tools to find and fix errors.
Contrast  different approaches to handling memory and  write  programs that
avoid memory leaks and unintended memory side effects.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Learn C++ (Online Textbook)
URL for Resource:  https://www.learncpp.com/
This material Is: Recommended
Programming Principles and Practice Using C++
Authors:  Bjarne Stroustrup
Publisher:  Pearson
Publication Date:  2024
Edition:  Third Edition
URL for Resource:  https://www.stroustrup.com/programming.html
This material Is: Required
Computer (Preferably with Camera)
Notes:
You must have your own computer for consuming online content that fulfills
the  Texas A&M Computer Requirements .
You will have to install software on it. We will provide links to software you can
install for the course and procedures for setting things up.
Many office hours are provided online so having a camera helps you utilize
those resources.
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Grades will be assigned according to the following scale:
Grading Scale
Rounded % total
Letter Grade
100 - 90
A
<90 and  ≥  80
B
<80 and  ≥  70
C
<70 and  ≥  60
D
<60
F
These grades represent varying degrees of achievement (see the  university's
grading system ): A = excellent, B = good, C = satisfactory, D = passing, F = failing.
If you want to challenge any grading, you must do so within one week of when the
grade is published.
We reserve the right to audit the grades for any assignments submitted to this
course. During the audit process, we can decrease or increase your score. This
could result in lowering the score of already released grades.
[12.9pt] Homework (20%)
Homework assignments are completed individually outside of class and submitted
weekly.
You may discuss with other students in the course.
You may not discuss with students not taking the course.
If you discuss, you must clearly identify who you discussed with in your
code submission.
You should not copy code from another student and you should not
provide your code to another student; each of you must write your own
code independently.
All detected plagiarism, cheating, complicity, and AI use will be reported to the
Aggie Honor System Office . Examples include, but are not limited to:
Writing code with AI tools such as ChatGPT or Copilot.
This includes not just copy-pasting code from an AI, but also
asking AI to explain the prompt or for help debugging.
You should not use AI in any capacity for the homework
assignments in this course.
Previously used code from Chegg or similar tutoring websites; using
such resources is not allowed.
Submitting code based on a solution or on starting code from such a
resource is considered plagiarism.
For resources that have not been explicitly allowed by the course,
check with your instructor or TA first before using them.
Some homework assignments will include extra credit. However, your
homework average will be capped at a maximum of 100%.
Your course homework score is the average of your homework scores.
You may resubmit redemption versions of the homework through the last
day of classes.
Homework scores will be the maximum between the original homework
score OR the average of the original homework score and the redemption
homework score.
[12.9pt] Labwork (10%)
Labwork activities are designed to help you better understand concepts that
students traditionally struggle with or are integral to know before doing homework.
You must work collaboratively in person with other students during your lab
session.
Even though you will work collaboratively, you will submit individually.
To get completion credit you must:
Fulfill what is required in the lab prompt for completion of that
particular labwork.
Attend the lab session in person, submit documentation for an
excused absence, or be one of two free absences that do not require
documentation.
Your course labwork score is the average of lab completion credits.
[12.9pt] Midterm Exams (36%)
The average of your midterm exam grades with the lowest midterm exam grade
dropped. Midterm exams are paper-only (no computers allowed) and taken during
your lab session.
[12.9pt] Final Exam (24%)
Cumulative, paper-only (no computers allowed) and taken in your lecture room
during your lecture exam time set by the registrar.
[12.9pt] Readings (5%)
Your course reading score is the average of your weekly Perusall reading
assignment scores plus 15 percentage points to a maximum of 100 percent. This
allows you to miss some reading assignments without negatively impacting your
score. For example, a friend has a personal crisis, and you choose to console them
instead of doing some Perusall reading assignments. You do not have to ask the
instructor for special consideration since it is built into the course.
[12.9pt] Class Engagement (5%)
Your instructor will give you activities that can include quizzes and “check-ins” to
assess your participation with class materials.
Your class engagement score is the score determined by your instructor plus 15
percentage points to a maximum of 100 percent. This allows you to miss some
class engagement without negatively impacting your score. For example, you had a
flat tire on the way to campus that caused you to miss an engagement activity in
class. You do not have to ask the instructor for special consideration since it is built
into the course.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
It is  your  responsibility to keep up with the class, even when unexpected
events interfere.
See the Course Specific Makeup Work Policy for details on excused absence
documentation and exam make ups.
[12.9pt] Homework Late Work
You have up to 10 late days you can distribute among all homework assignments
with a maximum of 4 days on a single homework.
To get credit for late submissions, you must submit your late homework
assignments to the redemption version of the homework.
You must submit the "Late Homework Days Request ” form under
“Student Resources” in Canvas  to have a redemption score used in
place of your original submission.
You should complete any homework before submitting late day
requests.
For late homework due to an excused absence, see the Course Specific Make
Up Work Policy section of the syllabus for submitting excused absence
documentation.
You still must submit to the redemption version of the assignment.
When the excused absence documentation is processed, the highest
score submitted to the redemption by the extended due date will be
used as your homework score.
You may request additional days beyond an excused absence by
submitting the form for “Late Homework Days Request” under “Student
Resources” in Canvas.
Note:  The autograding system will give you the maximum score you earn. This
allows you to keep credit for a passing version even if you “break” your code while
trying to pass more test cases which commonly happens when trying to improve
your score. We want you to improve your score and not be scared about lowering
your score.
Note:  Network congestion frequently increases close to deadlines. So, waiting to
submit until the last minute can easily lead to it becoming a late submission.  We
suggest finishing an assignment several hours in advance to ensure it is on
time.  You should also submit periodically as you develop your solution to get
feedback from the autograding system. However, you should focus on debugging
locally rather than submitting to the autograder and using it as a debugging tool.
[12.9pt] Labwork Late Work
Labwork will be accepted through the end of the day following your lab session. For
labs missed due to excused absences, see the Course Specific Makeup Work Policy.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[12.9pt] Topics and Midterm Exam Schedule
The course schedule is tentative and subject to change.
Topic and Midterm Exam Schedule
Week   Topics
Exams
1
What you (should) already know, but in C++
2
Vectors and Strings
3
Vectors and Strings; Errors and Debugging; Object-
Oriented Programming (OOP) Concepts
4
Object-Oriented Programming Concepts; Design and
Testing
5
Exceptions; Input/Output Streams
Exam 1
6
Input/Output Streams
7
Functions – Pass by Reference; Implementing Classes
8
Operator Overloading
9
Dynamic Memory; C-style Arrays
10
Dynamic Arrays
Exam 2
11
Classes with Dynamic Memory
12
Classes with Dynamic Memory
Week   Topics
Exams
13
Linked Lists
Exam 3
14
Inheritance and Polymorphism
15
Recursion
[12.9pt] Final Exam Schedule
The final exam schedule is  set by the university .
Final Exam Times and Locations
Sections   Instructor
Exam Date / Time
Location
200
Thomas
May 4 (M) 3:30 PM - 5:30 PM
ZACH 350
250
Tran
May 1 (F) 8:00 AM - 10:00 AM
MAIN 212
500-502
Beideman
May 4 (M) 10:30 AM - 12:30 PM
ZACH 310
503-505
Beideman
May 1 (F) 3:30 PM - 5:30 PM
ZACH 310
506-508
Merchant
May 1 (F) 3:30 PM - 5:30 PM
ZACH 350
509-510
Thomas
May 4 (M) 3:30 PM - 5:30 PM
ZACH 350
511-513
Ritchey
May 4 (M) 10:30 AM - 12:30 PM
ZACH 244
514-516
Ritchey
May 1 (F) 3:30 PM - 5:30 PM
ZACH 244
517-519
Leyk
May 1 (F) 10:30 AM - 12:30 PM   ZACH 244
520-522
Leyk
May 4 (M) 3:30 PM - 5:30 PM
ZACH 244
550
Tran
May 1 (F) 8:00 AM - 10:00 AM
MAIN 212
[12.9pt] Labwork Due Dates
Labs are done during your lab session. While it is preferred that you submit during
your lab session, you can submit them through the end of the following day.
[12.9pt] Homework Due Dates
The normal pattern is every Friday:
1. Friday, January 23
2. Friday, January 30
3. Friday, February 6
4. Friday, February 20
5. Friday, February 27
6. Friday, March 6
7. Friday, March 20
8. Friday, April 3
9. Friday, April 10
10. Friday, April 24
Any extensions will be posted under Announcements on the course Canvas
homepage.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Artificial Intelligence (AI) text generators and natural language processing tools
(colloquially, chatbots - such as ChatGPT), audio, computer code, video, and image
generators  must not be used in any way  for completing assignments or
assessments in this course. This includes not just copying code from AI tools but
also using AI tools to summarize the homework prompt, to get high level
algorithmic ideas or to debug your code. Students engaging in AI use to complete
course work will be reported and sanctioned.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Makeup Work Policy
It is  your  responsibility to keep up with the class, even when unexpected
events interfere.
[12.9pt] Exam Make Up
You may only make up exams missed due to an excused absence. Note that if
advanced notice is not feasible, you have two business days to provide notification.
A zero will be assigned for exams due to an unexcused absence. Documentation
must be submitted prior to making up for a missed exam.
If you miss an exam due to an excused absence, you must take the make up exam
on the designated date and time:
Exam 1 Make Up: Monday, Feb 16 at 7:30 PM in PETR 120
Exam 2 Make Up: Monday, Mar 30 at 7:30 PM in PETR 120
Exam 3 Make Up: Monday, Apr 20 at 7:30 PM in PETR 120
If you have problems with these times, discuss options with your instructor.
[12.9pt] Readings and Engagement
Readings and engagement are about what you are doing to keep up in the course,
so they cannot be made up long after the fact. However, excused absences will
extend due dates for readings and engagement according to the specific
instructor’s engagement activities.
[12.9pt] Homework
Late and make up homework is addressed in the Course Specific Late Work Policy
section.
[12.9pt] Labwork
You should always complete labwork, even if you will not receive credit since it will
help with upcoming homework assignments and exams.
Part of your labwork completion credit is attending the lab session.
If you have a valid reason to miss a lab session:
Complete the lab activity as soon as possible.
Submit the absence documentation form in Canvas to get an excused
absence for missing a lab session.
Each student will get attendance credit for  up to two absences not covered
by an excused absence documentation submission. As with excused
absences, you must still complete the lab activity.