<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 221 Syllabus
Section 503 (12347)
Data Structures and Algorithms
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MWF
Start Time: 09:10AM
End Time: 10:00AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 244
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 1:50PM
End Time: 2:40PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 590
Credit Hours:  4
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Teresa Leyk
Email:  teresa19@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 106
Phone:  979-845-4456
Office Hours
See the Course Resources on Canvas
Preferred Contact Method
email
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Data Structures and Algorithms. (3-2). Credit 4. Specification and implementation of
basic abstract data types and their associated algorithms including stacks, queues,
lists, sorting and selection, searching, graphs, and hashing; performance tradeoffs
of different implementations and asymptotic analysis of running time and memory
usage; includes the execution of student programs written in C++. Prerequisite:
Grade C or better in CSCE 120 or CSCE 121; grade of C or better in CSCE 222 or
ECEN 222, or concurrent enrollment.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade C or better in CSCE 120 or CSCE 121; grade of
C or better in CSCE 222/ECEN 222 or ECEN 222/CSCE 222, or concurrent
enrollment.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Design and implement a variety of data structures  that support efficient
data manipulation using the C++ programming language.
[11.0pt bold] Apply Big ‑ O asymptotic notation  to analyze algorithmic efficiency and
select appropriate algorithms based on runtime and memory considerations.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Data Structures and Algorithm Analysis in C++
ISBN:  978-0132847377
Authors:  Mark A. Weiss
Publisher:  Pearson
Publication Date:  June 13, 2013
Edition:  4th edition
[16.0pt] Additional Instructional Materials
This Material is: Optional
A free website devoted to teaching you how to program in modern C++
URL for Resource:  http://learncpp.com
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Grading
Criteria
Score
Grade
90 - 100
A
80 -
89.9
B
70 -
79.9
C
60 -
69.9
D
0 - 59.9
F
Grade Weights
Component
Weight
Homework Assignments
9%
Component
Weight
Programming Assignments 24%
Lab Activities
10%
Quizzes
12%
Midterm Exam 1
15%
Midterm Exam 2
15%
Final Exam
15%
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Make-up exams and quizzes will only be given with documented University-
approved excuses, see  University Regulations . The student  Rule 07  explains
policies and excused absences.
A homework assignment will be accepted up to  1 day late with a 5%
penalty . Once solutions have been discussed or handed out the assignments
will not be accepted.
Please discuss unusual circumstances in advance with the instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Course Schedule
Module   Week/Day
Topic
01
Jan 12 - 16
Introduction to Data Structures
Pointers, Arrays, Vectors
Introduction to Analysis of Algorithms
02
Jan 19 - 23
Complexity of Search and Sort Algorithms
Algorithms – Best, Worst, Average Cases
Jan 19
MKL Day (no classes)
Module   Week/Day
Topic
03
Jan 26 - 30
The Lower Bound Theorem
Linear Sort Algorithms
Stack ADT – Array Based Implementation
04
Feb 02 - 06
Queue ADT – Array-based Implementation
Amortized Analysis
Stack and Queue Applications; Parser
05
Feb 09 - 13
Linked Lists (Stack and Queue based)
Dequeues
Recursive Algorithms
Feb 09
Midterm Exam 1
06
Feb 16 - 20
Analysis of Divide-and-Conquer Algorithms
Iterating and Master Methods
07
Feb 23 - 27
Binary Search Trees
AVL Trees
Read-Black Trees
08
Mar 02 - 06
2-4 Trees
Skip Lists
Mar 02
Midterm Grades
Mar 18
Midterm Exam 2
Mar 09 - 13
Spring Break (no classes)
09
Mar 16 - 20
Hashing
Priority Queues
Heap
10
Mar 23 - 27
Huffman Trees
Graphs
BFS and DFS
11
Mar 30 - Apr
03
Digraph Algorithms
Apr 03
Reading Day (no classes)
12
Apr 06 - 10
Shortest Path Algorithms
Dijkstra Algorithms
13
Apr 13 - 17
Minimum Spanning Trees
Prim's Algorithm
Apr 14
Q-Drop Deadline
14
Apr 20 - 24
Disjoint Set ADT
Module   Week/Day
Topic
15
Apr 27 - 29
Kruskal Algorithm
Apr 28
Redefined Day (Friday)
Last day of classes
Final Review
Apr 29
Reading Day (no classes)
Apr 30
Final Exam: 10:00 am - 12:00 pm
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
Your final grade will be determined based on written homework,
programming assignments, lab activities, quizzes, and exams.
The assignment handout will provide points distribution.
All grade appeals must be made no later than one week after the grade
is posted.
The students lab attendance is required and will be taken on regular basis. 2
bonus points will be added to your final score if you have a perfect lab
attendance, or 1 point if you have only one lab absence.
The lecture attendance will be taken by pop quizzes. The students are
responsible to learn all material covered in class, read the assigned text from
the textbook and do homework assignments.
All homework assignments will be announced in class and posted on
Canvas.  See the link to the course calendar on Canvas for deadlines.
The written part of homework assignments or programming reports, and the
Cover Page should be typed  preferably using LaTeX or LaTeX-based
apps,  for instance Overleaf (an online LaTeX text editor). The homework  in
PDF format  should be submitted to  Gradescope .
All programming assignments  should be implemented in C++ , compiled
and run on a computer (preferably using Linux), and transferred to
Gradescope  for grading.
Quizzes are over material covered during the lectures and/or assigned
reading from the course material.
The Instructor and/or TAs can request oral exam  to check student’s
knowledge over material covered by test, homework, assignment or lecture
and lab activities.
Use Canvas to get access to the lecture notes, quizzes and tests,
assignments, and check your grades on the regular basis during the
semester.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
This course assumes that all work submitted by students will be generated by the
students themselves, although discussion with TAs, PTs and Instructor is allowed.
Students should not have another person/entity do the writing of any portion of an
assignment for them, which includes hiring a person or a company to write
assignments and/or using artificial intelligence tools like ChatGPT. ( Adapted from
University of Massachusetts Amherst )