<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 477 Syllabus
Section 550 (59022)
Cybersecurity Risk
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 1:50PM
End Time: 2:40PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  CLB 112
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: T
Start Time: 11:10AM
End Time: 12:00PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  CLB 210
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Marian Zaki
Email:  mzaki@tamu.edu
Office Location:  Engineering Classroom and Research Building (ECRB) – Room
309F
Phone:  409-740-5511
Office Hours
M 11:30 AM – 1:00 PM
T 9:30 PM – 10:30 AM
F 9:00 AM – 12:30 PM By appointment
Preferred Contact Method
[13.0pt] mzaki @ tamu . edu
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Cybersecurity Risk. (3-0). Credit 3. Risks in cybersecurity; avoidance, acceptance,
mitigation, or transference strategies; developing reliable cybersecurity risk
assessments to include analysis, categorization, and evaluation; cybersecurity risk
audit frameworks. Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in CYBR 201, CSCE 201, or
CSCE 221; junior or senior classification. Cross-listed with CYBR 403.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CYBR 201/CSCE 201,
CSCE 201/CYBR 201, or CSCE 221; junior or senior classification. Cross Listing:
CYBR 403/CSCE 477.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
Demonstrate  an understanding of the core concepts and practices that
underpin cybersecurity risk assessment.
Describe  advanced and emerging cybersecurity risk issues, including supply
chain security, privacy risks, and critical infrastructure protection.
Integrate  course concepts to assess, classify, and prioritize risks by
completing hands on risk assessments using realistic case studies.
Communicate  the role of cybersecurity risk within enterprise risk
management and deliver actionable insights with strategic recommendations.
Apply  real-world risk management approaches in real-life scenarios,
demonstrating practical reasoning and cybersecurity risk knowledge.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Digital Bundle Access for Managing Risk in Information Systems
Publisher:  JB Learning
Edition:  Third Edition
URL for Resource:  www.jblearning.com
Notes:
The digital bundle comes with an ebook and labs. When purchased through the JBL
website, you will get a 15% discount. You can also purchase from A&M's bookstore.
Follow the instructions here to complete your purchase:
https://info2.jblearning.com/gibson3e-fdoc
[14.0pt bold] Access Code for the Course is:  88EB32
This material Is: Optional
The security Risk Assessment Handbook
Authors:  Douglas J. Landoll
Publisher:  CRC Press
Publication Date:  2021
Edition:  Third Edition
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Weighted assessments
[11.0pt bold] Method of Evaluation
[11.0pt bold] weight
Midterm Exam
10%
Final Exam
15%
Assignments (Roughly 9 in total)
40%
[11.0pt bold] Method of Evaluation
[11.0pt bold] weight
Course Project
30%
Attendance and Active Classroom Participation
10%
[11.0pt bold] Total Possible Score
[11.0pt bold] 100%
The following grading scale is based on the total average weighted grades earned
over the course of the semester.
[10.5pt] Letter Grades
[10.5pt bold] Grade
[10.5pt bold] Range
[10.0pt] A
[10.0pt] 90 ≤ Score
[10.0pt] B
[10.0pt] 80 ≤ Score < 90
[10.0pt] C
[10.0pt] 70 ≤ Score < 80
[10.0pt] D
[10.0pt] 60 ≤ Score < 70
[10.0pt] F
[10.0pt] Score < 60
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Each student gets  one free pass  for a late submission (up to 3 days) with no
penalty. The free pass must be claimed before the deadline (student must
email the professor). One day late submission will have 10% points deducted,
two days late submission will have 20% points deducted. No later
submissions will be graded. The free pass can be reclaimed for extra credit at
the end of the semester if never utilized (great deal!)
Students with 504 accommodations will get the necessary accommodations
per their accommodation letter
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
The course consists of 3 main modules:
Module I:  Risk Assessment Foundations
Module II:  Risk Management
Module III:  Controls and Risk Treatment
A tentative list of topics for each part is included below. Typically assignments are
due within a week (by midnight) of being assigned, yet dates and due dates are
tentative based on the progress of the course, any changes to be made to the
weekly schedule will be clearly communicated ahead of time in class and through
Canvas (hence, make sure you check Canvas frequently for all due concrete due
dates).
Weekly Schedule
[11.0pt bold] Dates
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Topics
01/12 – 01/14
01
Course Introduction and Expectations
[11.0pt bold] Module I: Risk Assessment Foundations
What is risk? Introduction to Risk Management
Risk Identification Techniques
Risk Management Process
Introduction to NIST CSF v2.0
[11.0pt bold] Reading:  Chapter 1
[11.0pt bold] Assignment:  Research a non-cybersecurity risk domain
01/19
02
No Lecture – Martin Luther King, Jr. Day
01/20 – 01/21
02
Review the structure and purpose of NIST SP 800-
30 for Risk Assessment Methodologies
Core Question:  What is the risk, and how do we
measure it?
**Guest Speaker in class
01/26 – 01/28
03
Managing Threats, Vulnerabilities and Exploits
[11.0pt bold] Dates
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Topics
[11.0pt bold] Reading:  Chapter 2
[11.0pt bold] Assignment:  Lab – Identifying and Exploiting Vulnerabilities
02/02 – 02/04
04
Understanding Risk Assessments
Quantitative vs. Qualitative Risk Assessments
Best Practices for Risk Assessments
[11.0pt bold] Reading:  Chapter 5
02/09 – 02/11
05
Selecting a Risk Assessment Methodology
Identifying and Evaluating Threats and
Vulnerabilities
Identifying candidate controls (preliminary)
[11.0pt bold] Reading:  Chapter 6
[11.0pt bold] Assignment:  Lab – Performing a Risk Assessment
02/16 – 02/18
06
Identifying Assets
Assets Inventory
[11.0pt bold] Reading:  Chapter 7
[11.0pt bold] Assignment:  Lab – Creating an IT Asset Inventory
02/23 – 02/25
07
Threat Assessments
Vulnerability Assessments
Exploit Assessments
[11.0pt bold] Reading:  Chapter 8
[11.0pt bold] Assignment:  Lab – Managing Technical Vulnerabilities
03/02 – 03/04
08
[11.0pt bold] Midterm
[11.0pt bold] Module II: Risk Management
Review the structure and purpose of NIST SP 800-
37 for Risk Management Framework
Core Question:  How does an organization manage risk
over time?
03/09 – 03/13
--
Spring Break – No Classes
[11.0pt bold] Dates
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Topics
03/16 – 03/18
09
[11.0pt bold] Couse Project Released
Objectives and Scope of a Risk Management Plan
Risk ownership and accountability
[11.0pt bold] Reading:  Chapter 4
[11.0pt bold] Assignment:  Lab – Preparing a Risk Management Plan
03/23 – 03/25
10
[11.0pt bold] Module III: Controls and Risk Treatment
Review the structure and purpose of NIST SP 800-
53 for Security and Privacy Controls
Core Question:  What controls do we implement to treat
risk?
** Industry Guest speaker in class
03/30 – 04/01
11
Identifying risk mitigation controls
Risk mitigation throughout organizations
FEDRAMP authorization templates (SSP, RA,
POA&M)
[11.0pt bold] Reading:  Chapters 9 and 10
Assignment: Lab – Developing a Risk Mitigation Plan
04/06 – 04/08
12
Overview of Supply Chain Risk and Third Party
Vendors
Inherited vs shared responsibility controls
Cloud Providers Risk
** Industry Guest speaker in class
04/13 – 04/15
13
Translating a risk assessment into a risk mitigation
plan
Integrating cybersecurity risk into Enterprise Risk
Management by overviewing the latest
versions/revisions of NIST IR 8286
Course Project working session
[11.0pt bold] Reading:  Chapter 11
[11.0pt bold] Assignment:  Lab – Implementing a Risk Mitigation Plan
[11.0pt bold] Dates
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Topics
04/20 – 04/22
14
*Business Impact Analysis
Course Project working session
[11.0pt bold] Reading:  Chapter 12
[11.0pt bold] Assignment:  Lab – Performing a Business Impact Analysis
04/27 – 04/28
15
Last week of classes, reserved for review and
catch up
Course Project Final Presentations
04/29
16
No Lecture – Reading Day
04/30
16
Final Exam (Final Project Presentations) –
Time/duration to be confirmed
[12.0pt] * Topics tentative to course progress
[12.0pt] ** Most our guest speakers are industry professionals, the dates for their visits
[12.0pt] might change throughout the semester since we’ll have to be flexible with their
[12.0pt] work schedules that could potentially change anytime, hence some of our in-class
[12.0pt] discussion topics might shift around. All changes will be communicated clearly in
[12.0pt] class.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
Course Assessments and activities:
[11.0pt bold] Course Project
The course project will be completed in teams. Students in each team will
be assigned to a use case/company to perform a comprehensive cyber risk
assessment for. The project deliverables will include formal
documentations and in-class presentations. The exact deliverables and
rubric for the project will be posted on Canvas when the project is released.
Peer reviews will be part of the project assessment process, 30% of the final
project grade will be allocated to individual contribution.
[11.0pt bold] Assignments
Most assignments are hands-on lab assignments that align with the course
topics. The labs will be accessible through the JBL platform. Students are
required to log into the platform and complete the labs assigned. In Canvas,
you will have reminders of which labs to complete and their deadlines.
[11.0pt bold] Attendance and Active Classroom Participation
Coming prepared for class is defined as having studied the material
covered in the previous class, arriving to class on time.
10% of the course grade will be assigned to attendance, active classroom
participation and general classroom behavior and etiquette. Here are the
things that can result in points deducted
Missing more than 2 classes without prior notification and acceptable
absence (See attendance policy section)
Constant cell phone use
Arriving more than 5 minutes late for class
Having earbuds/headphones on (even if not being used)
Browsing Internet, playing games or working on other course work
during class time
Random walks in and out of class
[11.0pt bold] Exams
Both the midterm and final exam will assess the students’ understanding of
the concepts discussed throughout the course as well as the reading
materials.
Exams will have two parts, an in-class multiple choice portion and a take
home potion.
While the in-class activities, discussions and workshops will cover a wide
range of the course topics, it is not possible to cover everything in class,
hence students are expected to complete their textbook readings to get a
deeper understanding of the topics and to prepare for the exams.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Unless indicated in the assignment or project and authorized by the professor, the
use of generative AI to complete the work will be considered a violation of academic
integrity. If in doubt about what it means or counts as a utilization of generative AI,
ask the professor prior to attempting the task to avoid any unexpected penalties, in
other words: Ask for permission instead of forgiveness.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
If for any reason you are unable to attend a class you will need to email the
professor for an excused absence. The professor reserves the rights to assess if the
reason is valid or not and request any supporting documentation.
Missing quizzes or exams does not guarantee a makeup unless the reason
involves  significant and unavoidable circumstances, such as severe illness or
emergencies, and is properly documented .