<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 676 Syllabus
Section 700 (59910)
Data Mining and Analysis
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days:
Start Time: N/A
End Time: N/A
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ONLINE ONLINE
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
James Caverlee
Email:  caverlee@tamu.edu
Office Location:  Peterson 338
Phone:  979-458-3870
Office Hours
TBD
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Data Mining and Analysis. (3-0). Credit 3. Broad overview of data mining, integrating
related concepts from machine learning and statistics; exploratory data analysis,
pattern mining, clustering and classification; applications to scientific and online
data. Cross-listed with ECEN 758 and STAT 639.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
I expect all students to have had some previous exposure to basic probability,
statistics, algorithms, and data structures. You should be able to design and
develop large programs and learn new software libraries on your own.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Define and explain the key concepts and models relevant to data mining and
analysis, including data
preparation, normalization, dimensionality reduction, text mining, and so on.
Design, implement, and evaluate data mining algorithms like associate rules,
clustering, anomaly detection, and do so on modern scalable cloud
computing platforms (e.g., Spark).
Identify the salient features and apply recent research results in data mining,
including topics such as graph mining, and large-scale mining.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Course readings will be drawn from a variety of online
textbooks, scholarly papers, and other resources. One
important textbook is listed below.
This material Is: Required
Mining of Massive Data Sets
ISBN:  9781108476348
Authors:  Jure Leskovec, Anand Rajaraman, Jeffrey David
Ullman
Publisher:  Cambridge University Press
Publication Date:  2020-01-09
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
10% Weekly Assessments
50% Homework
40% Individual Semester-Long Project
A >= 90, B >= 80 and < 90, C >= 70 and < 80, D >= 60 and < 70, F < 60
Weekly Assessments:  Each week will have one or more short quizzes (typically
true/false, multiple choice) over that week's material. These assessments may be
taken multiple times, with only the highest score kept for grading.
Homework:  We will have homework assignments every week. For the first twelve
weeks, these will be worth 4% of your grade. The 13th homework will be worth 2%
of your grade. All homework assignments will be Python notebooks, with a mix of
programming-based problems, written problems, and other questions (e.g., post a
video in response to a particular query, post a response on a Canvas Discussion).
We also require all students to use an AI-coding assistant  (e.g., Cursor, Cline,
CoPilot, etc.). The future of coding (imho) is 5x or 10x developers who can smartly
use AI to accelerate their productivity. So let’s get started practicing now. We make
no expectations that you have been exposed to Python before, but we do expect
you to come up to speed rapidly.
All homework assignments must be submitted by 11:59pm Central time on the due
date. For the homework assignments, you may talk to any other class member or
work in groups to discuss the problems in a general way. However, your actual
detailed solution must be yours alone. If you do talk to other students, you must
write on your assignment who it is that you discussed the problems with. Your
submitted work must be written solely by you and not contain work directly copied
from others.
Homework Collaboration Clarification:  To clarify, your homework is yours alone and
you are expected to complete each homework independently. Your solution should
be written by you without the direct aid or help of anyone else. However, we believe
that collaboration and team work are important for facilitating learning, so we
encourage you to discuss problems and general problem approaches (but not
actual solutions) with your classmates. If you do have a chat with another student
about a homework problem, you must inform us by writing a note on your
homework submission (e.g., Bob pointed me to the relevant section for problem 3).
The basic rule is that no student should explicitly share a solution with another
student (and thereby circumvent the basic learning process), but it is okay to share
general approaches, directions, and so on. If you feel like you have an issue that
needs clarification, feel free to contact either me or the TA.
[11.0pt bold] Individual Semester-Long Project:  Over the course of the semester, you will work
on a significant data mining project. The project is broken into five major
deliverables:
1. Data Selection (Feb 3)
2. Initial Research Question (Mar 5)
3. Deep Dive (Apr 2)
4. Project Showcase  (week of Apr 20)
5. Final Deliverable (Apr 27)
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late homework assignments will be penalized 1% per hour after the deadline, up to
a maximum of 48 hours. After 48 hours, the assignment will receive a 0. To
illustrate, an assignment submitted at 5:05am will be penalized 6 points (so it will be
graded out of 94, instead of 100).
For the Individual Semester-Long Project, students will have FIVE late days in total
for the first three deliverables -- Data Selection (Feb 3), Initial Research Question
(Mar 5), and Deep Dive (Apr 2). The final two deliverables -- Project Showcase (week
of Apr 20) and Final Deliverable (Apr 27) -- will not be accepted late.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Week 1 :: Course introduction
Week 2 :: Frequent Itemset Mining
Week 3 :: Graph Mining
Week 4 :: Graph Mining and Large-Scale ML
Week 5 :: Large-Scale ML
Week 6 :: Clustering
Week 7 :: Text Mining
Week 8 :: Data Mining and Distributed Computing
Week 9 :: Anomaly Detection
Week 10 :: Graph Embeddings
Week 11 :: Locality-Sensitive Hashing
Week 12 :: Stream Mining
Week 13 :: Hot Topics in Data Mining
Week 14 :: Project Showcase
Week 15 :: Finalize Project Deliverables
Major Project Deadlines:
1. Data Selection (Feb 3)
2. Initial Research Question (Mar 5)
3. Deep Dive (Apr 2)
4. Project Showcase (week of Apr 20)
5. Final Deliverable (Apr 27)