<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 222 Syllabus
Section 200 (58340)
Discrete Structures for Computing
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 3:55PM
End Time: 5:10PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  HRBB 126
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Timothy Davis
Email:  davis@tamu.edu
Office Location:  235 Peterson
Phone:  979 845 4094
Office Hours
10am-11am, Tuesdays and Thursdays
Preferred Contact Method
email, text, or cell phone (cell: 352 359 2812)
Biography
Tim Davis is a Professor of Computer Science at Texas A&M University. His primary
scholarly contribution is the creation of widely-used sparse matrix algorithms and
software (SuiteSparse), including most of the sparse solvers behind x=A\b in
MATLAB, and many other commercial packages. For example, his codes power the
semiconductor processing of all high-end semiconductor fabs.  Every Apple device
uses his solvers, and they are also an integral part of Pokemen Go (for augmented
reality).  Fellow IEEE, SIAM, ACM.
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Discrete Structures for Computing. (3-0). Credit 3. Mathematical foundations from
discrete mathematics for analyzing computer algorithms, for both correctness and
performance; introduction to models of computation, including finite state
machines and Turing machines. Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in MATH 142,
MATH 147, MATH 151, or MATH 171. Cross-listed with ECEN 222.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in MATH 142, MATH 147,
MATH 151, or MATH 171. Cross Listing: ECEN 222/CSCE 222.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Discrete Mathematics is to computer science as words and grammar are to English.
Solving a problem in computer science without discrete math is like writing a novel
with garbled grammar or a confusing plot. It just won't work. Your thinking will be
muddled, and your code just won't work. Worse yet, your code will likely have
hidden bugs that won't be found until an end-user complains (or explodes ...). At
that point, fixing the bug is costly, or even impossible.
This course teaches you the fundamentals of logic, proof techniques,
induction/recursion, counting, advanced counting (not as easy as it sounds!),
relations, graph theory, models of computing, and finite state machines. These
mathematical tools are essential to doing and understanding computer science /
computer engineering.
The following are the formal learning outcomes of the course.  Upon completion of
this course, the learner will be able to:
[12.0pt] 1. understand the basic principles of logic, proofs and sets.
[12.0pt] 2. apply results from discrete mathematics to the analysis of algorithms.
[12.0pt] 3. produce proofs by induction and apply counting techniques.
[12.0pt] 4. explain models of computation.
[12.0pt] 5. understand and apply results from graph theory, relations, and trees
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Discrete Mathematics and Its Applications
ISBN:  1260920240
Authors:  K. Rosen
Publisher:  McGraw-Hill
Publication Date:  2025
Edition:  2025 Release
URL for Resource:  https://www.mheducation.com/highered/product/Discrete-
Mathematics-and-Its-Applications-Rosen.html
Notes:
You must use the 2025 Release (in any format: ebook, print, etc).  You cannot use
the 8th (or earlier) editions.  See:
https://www.mheducation.com/highered/product/discrete-mathematics-and-its-
applications-rosen.html
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Exams 75%: we will have two in-class exams during the semester, and a final exam.
Each is worth 25% each.
Homework: 25%. Homework is always due at EXACTLY 3:55pm on a class day, so
that I can discuss the solution in class that day. So normally I cannot accept late
submissions, except with prior permission. Homework is assigned, submitted, and
graded on Canvas. Unless otherwise noted on the assignment, all homework is to
be done by yourself. You may discuss the homework with each other but you must
solve the problems yourself. When discussing with each other, pretend you are in
my office discussing it with me. I will help you understand the problem but I
wouldn't give you the solution. If you do discuss the homework with anyone, state
their name on your submission (either on the HW itself or on a note on Canvas).
You may not use AI in any way.
Grading scale (after curving of individual items, as needed):
90 or higher: A
80: B
70: C
60: D
less than 60: F
The University views class attendance as the responsibility of an individual student.
Attendance is essential to complete the course successfully. University rules related
to excused and unexcused absences are located on-line at  http://student-
rules.tamu.edu/rule07 ; In general, I do not give excused absences for interviews or
travel, but exceptions are granted on a case-by-case basis. You must ask me
beforehand, however. If you miss class because of medical reasons or for an
interview (for work or for graduate / professional school) that cannot be
rescheduled, I reserve the right to require written confirmation. For interviews or
other scheduled events, a priori confirmation is required.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
No late assignments accepted without a priori permission.  Turning in a homework
assignment one minute past the due date
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Tues, Jan 13
Thurs, Jan 15
Tues, Jan 20, hw1 due
Thurs, Jan 22
Tues, Jan 27, hw2 due
Thurs, Jan 29
Tues, Feb 3, hw3 due
Thurs, Feb 5
Tues, Feb 10, hw4 due
Thurs, Feb 12, Exam 1 (on hw1-hw4 topics)
Tues, Feb 17
Thurs, Feb 19, hw5 due
Tues, Feb 24
Thurs, Feb 26, hw6 due
Tues, Mar 3
Thurs, Mar 5
Tues, Mar 10 (no class, Spring break)
Thurs, Mar 12 (no class, Spring break)
Tues, Mar 17, hw7 due
Thurs, Mar 19, hw8 due (this will be a short HW)
Tues, Mar 24, Exam 2 (on hw5-hw8 topics)
Thurs, Mar 26
Tues, Mar 31
Thurs, Apr 2, hw9 due
Tues, Apr 7
Thurs, Apr 9, hw10 due
Tues, Apr 14
Thurs, Apr 16, hw11 due
Tues, Apr 21
Thurs, Apr 23, hw12 due
Tues, Apr 28
Monday, May 4, Final Exam, 1pm to 3pm, in our regular classroom (HRB
126)
Topics, with sections/chapters of the book:
1 The Foundations: Logic and Proofs
1.1 Propositional Logic
1.2 Applications of Propositional Logic
1.3 Propositional Equivalences
1.4 Predicates and Quantifiers
1.5 Nested Quantifiers
1.6 Rules of Inference
1.7 Introduction to Proofs
1.8 Proof Methods and Strategy
2 Basic Structures: Sets, Functions, Sequences, Sums, and Matrices.
2.1 Sets
2.2 Set Operations
2.3 Functions
2.4 Sequences and Summations
2.6 Matrices
3 Algorithms
3.1 Algorithms
3.2 The Growth of Functions
3.3 Complexity of Algorithms
4 Number theory and cryptography
4.1 Divisibility and Modular Arithmetic
4.3 Primes and Greatest Common Divisor
5 Induction and Recursion
5.1 Mathematical Induction
5.2 Strong Induction and Well-Ordering
5.3 Recursive Definitions and Structural Induction
5.4 Recursive Algorithms
6 Counting
6.1 The Basics of Counting
6.2 The Pigeonhole Principle
6.3 Permutations and Combinations
8 Advanced Counting Techniques
8.1 Applications of Recurrence Relations
8.3 Divide-and-Conquer Algorithms and Recurrence Relations
9 Relations
9.1 Relations and Their Properties
9.3 Representing Relations
9.5 Equivalence Relations
10 Graphs
10.1 Graphs and Graph Models
10.2 Graph Terminology and Special Types of Graphs
10.3 Representing Graphs
10.4 Connectivity
11 Trees
11.1 Introduction to Trees
11.2 Applications of Trees
11.3 Tree Traversal
13 Modeling Computation
13.2 Finite-State Machines with Output
13.3 Finite-State Machines with No Output
13.4 Language Recognition
13.5 Turing Machines
[16.0pt] AI Statement
No use of AI is permitted in any manner.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
Attendance is expected but not logged.