<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 410 Syllabus
Section 500 (42396)
Operating Systems
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Lecture schedule
Lecture schedule
Section
Day
Time
Location
Lecture
code
500
Tuesday,
Thursday
02:20 PM - 03:35
PM
ZACH 244
Code
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
David Houngninou
Email:  davidkebo@tamu.edu
Office Location:  Peterson 439
Phone:  979-845-3937
Office Hours
[13.0pt] https://calendly.com/davidkebo/20min
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Operating Systems. (3-0). Credit 3. Hardware/software evolution leading to
contemporary operating systems; basic operating systems concepts; methods of
operating systems design and construction including algorithms for CPU
scheduling, memory and general resource allocation, process coordination and
management; case studies of several operating systems. Prerequisites: Grade of C
or better in CSCE 313; grade of C or better in CSCE 315 or CSCE 331.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 313; grade of C or better
in CSCE 315 or CSCE 331.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
At the end of the course, the students will be able to:
Describe and compare the role, the architecture, and the major components of an
operating system.
Describe the role and operation of exception and interrupt handling in modern
operating systems.
Implement components of a virtual memory manager for a paged system.
Evaluate and compare various forms of concurrency mechanisms.
Evaluate and compare and apply various synchronization mechanisms, both for
single-processor and multiprocessor systems.
Implement components of a threading system for a single-processor system.
Implement components of a simple device driver.
Implement components of a simple file system.
Evaluate and compare the various virtualization approaches and their effect on
system performance.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Advanced Programming in the UNIX Environment
ISBN:  978-0321637734
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[12.9pt] Grading distribution
Lecture schedule
Distribution
Exam 1
15%
Exam 2
15%
Activities
30%
Labs
40%
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[12.9pt] Submission of Work, Deadline Policy, and Late Submission
Late assignments are not accepted.
The lab is due by 11:59 PM on the due date.
Timed assignments must be submitted within the allocated time.
Email submissions are not accepted.
If you have difficulties finishing an assignment, contact the instructor  before
the deadline.
One-time pass
You are eligible to receive a  one-time  waiver for one late  programming
assignment .
You can only use the pass  once .
The one-time pass gives you a 24-hour extension past the due date.
A team (2 students) is eligible for two one-time passes. You can use each pass
for different labs, or stack them for the same lab.
Fill out  this form  to submit a late lab within 24 hours after the due date.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[12.9pt] Class Schedule
Class Schedule
WEEK DATE
EVENTS/HOLIDAYS  LABS /
ASSIGNMENTS   READING
CLASS
TOPIC AND
SLIDES
Week
1
13-JAN
15-JAN
First day of class
No Lab
Linux
environment
configuration
Qemu RISC-V
tools setup
OSTEP 2:
Introduction
Onboarding
Checklist
UNIX System
Overview
Week
2
20-JAN
22-JAN
Lab 1: Xv6 and
System Calls
OSTEP 6:
Direction
Execution
OSTEP 4:
Processes
Linux and
Xv6
Structure
System Calls
in Xv6 &
Linux
WEEK DATE
EVENTS/HOLIDAYS  LABS /
ASSIGNMENTS   READING
CLASS
TOPIC AND
SLIDES
Week
3
27-JAN
29-JAN
[12.0pt] OSTEP
[12.0pt] 13:  Address
[12.0pt] Spaces
Address
translation
Week
4
03-FEB
05-FEB
Lab 2: Page
tables
OSTEP 14:
Address
Translation
OSTEP 18:
Introduction
to Paging
OSTEP 20:
Advanced
Page Table
Paging
Page Tables
Week
5
10-FEB
12-FEB
OSTEP 17:
Free Space
Management
OSTEP 21:
Swapping
Mechanism
Page Tables
in Xv6 and
Linux
Demand
Paging and
Swapping
Week
6
17-FEB
19-FEB
Lab 3: Demand
paging and
copy-on-write
OSTEP 23:
Complete
VM Systems
OSTEP 22:
Swapping
Policies
Virtual
Memory
Management
Demand
paging and
Copy-on-
Write
Page
Replacement
Policies
WEEK DATE
EVENTS/HOLIDAYS  LABS /
ASSIGNMENTS   READING
CLASS
TOPIC AND
SLIDES
Week
7
24-FEB
26-FEB
OSTEP 7:
CPU
Scheduling
OSTEP 8:
Multi-Level
Feedback
OSTEP 9:
Lottery
Scheduling
Page
Replacement
Policies
CPU
Scheduling
Midterm
exam
review
Midterm
exam
practice
Midterm
exam in-
class
practice and
solution
Week
8
03-MAR
05-MAR
Lab 4: CPU
Management
OSTEP 26:
Concurrency
& Thread
OSTEP 27:
Thread API
CPU
Scheduling
Midterm
exam
Thursday,
March 05,
09:00 AM to
11:59 PM
Week
9
10-MAR
12-MAR
10-MAR to 16-MAR
Spring Break
OSTEP 28:
Locks
OSTEP 29:
Locked Data
Structure
Device I/O
WEEK DATE
EVENTS/HOLIDAYS  LABS /
ASSIGNMENTS   READING
CLASS
TOPIC AND
SLIDES
Week
10
17-MAR
19-MAR
OSTEP 32:
Concurrency
Bugs
The OSI
reference
model
Week
11
24-MAR
26-MAR
OSTEP 30:
Conditional
Variables
OSTEP 31:
Semaphores
Storage
Filesystems
Filesystems
organization
Week
12
31-MAR
02-APR
Lab 5: File
System
OSTEP 39:
Files and
Directories
Xv6
Filesystems
Week
13
07-APR
09-APR
OSTEP 40:
Filesystem
Implementat
ion
ffsck: The
Fast File
System
Checker
Filesystems
Consistency
Week
14
14-APR
16-APR
OSTEP 42:
FSCK and
Journaling
Program
Security Part
1
Program
Security Part
2
WEEK DATE
EVENTS/HOLIDAYS  LABS /
ASSIGNMENTS   READING
CLASS
TOPIC AND
SLIDES
Week
15
21-APR
23-APR
OSTEP 36:
I/O Devices
OS Security
Week
16
28-APR
30-APR
28-APR
Last Day of Classes
OSTEP 37:
Hard Disk
Drives
Final exam
review
Week
17
05-MAY
07-MAY
Final exam -
Online
Tuesday,
May 05th,
09:00 AM to
11:59 PM