<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 221 Syllabus
Section 512 (52712)
Data Structures and Algorithms
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MWF
Start Time: 11:30AM
End Time: 12:20PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 310
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 08:25AM
End Time: 09:15AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 596
Credit Hours:  4
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Sandeep Kumar
Email:  sandeep.kumar@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 105
Phone:  979-458-6816
Office Hours
TBD
Preferred Contact Method
Email
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Data Structures and Algorithms. (3-2). Credit 4. Specification and implementation of
basic abstract data types and their associated algorithms including stacks, queues,
lists, sorting and selection, searching, graphs, and hashing; performance tradeoffs
of different implementations and asymptotic analysis of running time and memory
usage; includes the execution of student programs written in C++. Prerequisite:
Grade C or better in CSCE 120 or CSCE 121; grade of C or better in CSCE 222 or
ECEN 222, or concurrent enrollment.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade C or better in CSCE 120 or CSCE 121; grade of
C or better in CSCE 222/ECEN 222 or ECEN 222/CSCE 222, or concurrent
enrollment.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Design and implement diverse data structures that allow easy access and
manipulation of data using C++ programming language.
Apply the Big- O  asymptotic notation to analyze and select an efficient
algorithm for solving a given problem with respect to runtime and memory
usage.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Data Structures and Algorithm Analysis in C++,
International Edition
ISBN:  9780273775386
Authors:  Mark A. Weiss
Publisher:  Pearson Higher Ed
Publication Date:  2014-09-24
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Your grade in the class will be based on the following activities spread throughout
the semester.
2-3 homeworks worth  9% . Homeworks  must  be typeset in LaTeX. This not
only saves us grey cells trying to decipher your handwriting, it gives you
practice with LaTeX—something you'll need later in college.
6 Programming assignment(s) worth a total of  24% .
Lab Activities worth  10% . This might also have a participation component.
Several quizzes throughout the semester worth  12% .
Three exams (one of which may be the final) weighted equally worth  45% .
Your letter grade in the class will be based on the following cutoffs where  x  is your
cumulative score.
A: x  ≥  90.
B: 80  ≤  x < 90.
C: 70  ≤ x < 80.
D: 60  ≤ x < 70.
F: x < 60.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late assignments will not be accepted without a reason.
Assignments will usually be due by 11:59 PM on the due date. To
accommodate last minute submissions, we'll deduct 1% penalty per late hour
on programming assignments. I.e., we'll grade the assignment as if it was
submitted on time, then deduct for late time. In most cases you'll submit your
assignments on Gradescope but if because of some technical hitch we ask
you to mail your assignment to us, you must keep the mail in your
Sent/Outbox folder, so you can later show that you mailed us the assignment
on time. Please discuss unusual circumstances in advance with the TA's when
possible.
Work submitted as makeup work for an excused absence is not considered
late work and is exempted from the late work policy (Student Rule 7).
Email submissions will not be accepted in general. However, you should keep
a copy (in your mail Sent/Outbox folder) of all relevant communication to us
in case of disputes.
If you have difficulty finishing an assignment, contact the instructor/TA before
the deadline.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[12.9pt] § Week 1, Jan 12. First week of class
Introduction to Data Structures
Pointers, Arrays, Vectors
Introduction to Analysis of Algorithms
[12.9pt] § Week 2, Jan 19. MLK holiday on monday.
Complexity of Search and Sort Algorithms
Algorithms—Best, Worst, Average Cases
The Lower Bound Theorem.
[12.9pt] § Week 3, Jan 26. Attendance certification due.
Linear Sort Algorithms
Stack ADT—Array Based Implementation
[12.9pt] § Week 4, Feb 2.
Queue ADT—Array-based Implementation
Amortized Analysis
Stack and Queue Applications.
[12.9pt] § Week 5, Feb 9.
Linked Lists in C++
Linked List-based Stack and Queue
[12.9pt] § Week 6, Feb 16. Tentative date for first midterm: Feb 16.
Linked List-based Stack and Queue
Dequeues
Recursive Algorithms
[12.9pt] § Week 7, Feb 23.
Analysis of Divide-and-Conquer Algorithms
Iterating and Master Methods
[12.9pt] § Week 8, Mar 2. Mid-semester grades are due at noon on Mar 2.
Binary Search Trees
AVL Trees
Red-Black Trees
[12.9pt] § Week 9, Mar 9. Spring Break.
[12.9pt] § Week 10, Mar 16. Tentative date for second midterm: Mar 16.
2–4 Trees
Skip Lists
[12.9pt] § Week 11, Mar 23.
Hashing
Priority Queues
Heaps
[12.9pt] § Week 12, Mar 30. Fri Apr 3 is Reading day.
Graph traversal—BFS and DFS
[12.9pt] § Week 13, Apr 6.
Shortest Path Algorithms
Dijkstra's Algorithm
Bellman-Ford's Algorithm
[12.9pt] § Week 14, Apr 13.
Minimum Spanning Trees
Prim's Algorithm
[12.9pt] § Week 15, Apr 20.
Kruskal’s Algorithm
Disjoint sets ADT
[12.9pt] § Week 16, Apr 27. Tue Apr 28 last day of classes.
TBD
[16.0pt] AI Statement
I'm fine if you use tools such as ChatGPT, Gemini, Claude etc. to understand the
material in the class, and even to help with your homeworks. But  blind copying
and pasting from these tools is not permitted . You must eventually write the
solution yourself, and code your labs and programming assignments yourself. Also
remember that you'll have to take all exams without these tools, and a weaker
understanding resulting from constant use of these tools will reflect in your exam
performance.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
Attendance during lectures is not mandatory . If you are receiving federal
financial assistance, the university uses your “participation” as a measure of meeting
the requirements of the assistance. Physical attendance is one criterion to
determine participation. You should be ok if you're turning in labs and
programming assignments, taking quizzes and exams etc. However, I will take
attendance as an indication of your “participation” and report it to the university
when asked. I may take pictures of the classroom to verify attendance.