<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 449 Syllabus
Section 500 (50618)
Applied Cryptography
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: F
Start Time: 08:00AM
End Time: 11:00AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  EABA 118
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Guofei Gu
Email:  guofei@tamu.edu
Office Location:  Room 239 Peterson
Phone:  9798452475
Office Hours
3-4pm Wednesday or by appointment
Preferred Contact Method
Email: guofei@cse.tamu.edu
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Applied Cryptography. (3-0). Credit 3. Applied cryptography; secure multi-party
computations; zero knowledge proofs; blockchain and machine learning.
Prerequisite: CSCE 221.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
[10.0pt] A comprehensive overview of the theory and practice of securing systems through
[10.0pt] cryptography. Topics include foundational security design principles, attacker models,
[10.0pt] classical ciphers, and secure randomness; modern symmetric-key (stream and block) and
[10.0pt] asymmetric/public-key ciphers; cryptographic primitives including hash functions, digital
[10.0pt] signatures, message authentication codes, and key exchange. Applications are explored,
[10.0pt] along with emerging trends. Hands-on projects provide practical experience with
[10.0pt] cryptographic tools.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  CSCE 221.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
[10.0pt bold] Identify and describe  fundamental cryptographic elements, including symmetric and
[10.0pt] asymmetric cryptography, cryptographic hash functions, and digital signatures,
[10.0pt] explaining their roles in securing information systems.
[10.0pt bold] Apply  cryptographic algorithms and protocols to implement secure communication
[10.0pt] and data protection mechanisms in practical exercises and coding assignments.
[10.0pt bold] Analyze and compare  different cryptographic methods in terms of their design
[10.0pt] principles, mathematical foundations, strengths, weaknesses, and use cases.
[10.0pt bold] Evaluate  the security of networked and distributed systems by identifying potential
[10.0pt] attack models, vulnerabilities, and the underlying security and privacy assumptions.
[10.0pt bold] Design and implement  secure distributed systems by integrating appropriate
[10.0pt] cryptographic components to defend against different thread models.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
• Network Security: Private Communication in a Public World
Authors:  Charlie Kaufman, Radia Perlman, Mike Speciner, and Ray Perlner
Publication Date:  2022
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[10.0pt] Grading:  Assignments 40%, Exam I 25%, Exam II 30%, Course participation and Quiz 5%.
[10.0pt] Assignments:  Four homework assignments, each including conceptual questions and/or
[10.0pt] programming problems.
[10.0pt] All assignments will be distributed and submitted through canvas.tamu.edu. Please submit
[10.0pt] your assignment (e.g., program/report) in a single zip or tar ball. Please double check your
[10.0pt] submission to make sure it is complete and correct. All late submissions will automatically
[10.0pt] lose 20% points per delayed day. After grades distributed/returned, there is 1 week time limit
[10.0pt] to notify the instructor of any questions or concerns in the grading.
[10.0pt] Grade scale:  90-100 = A. 80-89 = B. 70-79 = C. 60-69 = D. Below 60 = F
[12.0pt] Any academic misconduct in this course will result in a grade of F*.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[10.0pt] All late submissions will automatically lose 20% points per delayed day.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Tentative Schedule
Week
Topic
[10.0pt] 1
[10.0pt] Course Logistics/Security Overview
[10.0pt] 2
[10.0pt] Intro to Crypto; Randomness
[10.0pt] 3
[10.0pt] Symmetric Key Crypto
[10.0pt] 4
[10.0pt] Modes of Operation
[10.0pt] 5
[10.0pt] Hashes and Message Digests
[10.0pt] 6
[10.0pt] Public Key Crypto I
[10.0pt] 7
[10.0pt] Public Key Crypto II
[10.0pt] 8
[10.0pt] Authentication I
[10.0pt] 9
[10.0pt] Spring break (no class)
[10.0pt] 10
[10.0pt] Authentication II
[10.0pt] 11
[10.0pt] Transport Layer Security (TLS/SSL)
[10.0pt] 12
[10.0pt] Quantum Computing
[10.0pt] 13
[10.0pt] Post Quantum Cryptography
[10.0pt] 14
[10.0pt] Blockchain and Cryptocurrencies
[10.0pt] 15
[10.0pt] Tentative: Zero knowledge proof (ZKP)
[10.0pt] 16
[10.0pt] Final exam (TBD)
[16.0pt] Course Specific Makeup Work Policy
[10.0pt] The University views class attendance as the responsibility of an individual student.
[10.0pt] Attendance is essential to complete the course successfully. University rules related to
[10.0pt] excused and unexcused absences are located on-line at http://student-rules.tamu.edu/rule07.
[10.0pt] If you have a conflict with a scheduled exam, please contact the professor as soon as
[10.0pt] possible, but no later than one week in advance to schedule a make-up. If your conflict is
[10.0pt] unforeseen (e.g. sudden hospitalization), please contact the professor as soon as possible to
[10.0pt] arrange a make-up. Please provide your professor with documentation for excused
[10.0pt] absences.
[10.0pt] Exams: Students should not miss any exams without a 24-hour prior notification to the
[10.0pt] professor in case of an emergency. The professor reserves the right to request evidence of
[10.0pt] the emergency. If the request is approved, the professor reserves the right to administer a
[10.0pt] different exam, deduct points for taking the exam late, and/or schedule the makeup for a later
[10.0pt] date. Missing an exam without giving prior notice will result in a zero for that test, with no
[10.0pt] makeup.