<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 434 Syllabus
Section 550 (55425)
Compiler Design
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 08:00AM
End Time: 09:15AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  MAIN 212
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Zoran Budimlic
Email:  zoran@tamu.edu
Office Location:  ECRB #309H
Phone:  409-740-8873
Office Hours
Tuesdays and Thursdays 4-5PM
Preferred Contact Method
email
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Compiler Design. (3-0). Credit 3. Programming language translation; functions and
general organization of compiler design and interpreters; theoretical and
implementation aspects of lexical scanners; parsing of context free languages; code
generation and optimization; error recovery. Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in
CSCE 315 or CSCE 331.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
In this course the students will develop a fundamental understanding of the issues
that arise in program translation, including lexing, parsing, syntax analysis,
translation, register allocation, code generation and rudimentary program
optimization. The programming assignments will help students develop skills in the
creation and manipulation of abstract program representations and implementation
of complex software algorithms. This will provide deeper insights into the more
advanced semantics aspects of
programming languages, code generation, machine independent optimizations,
dynamic memory
allocation, types and their inferences and object orientation. Exam questions will be
drawn from both the book and the lectures.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 315 or CSCE 331.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Apply the translation process from user code to machine code and analyze the
functionality of each stage of the compilation process.
Create grammars for programming languages and apply parsing techniques to
detect syntactic and semantic errors.
Apply the theoretical foundations to use compiler construction tools efficiently
Analyze the complexities and tradeoffs in the compilation process while
applying optimizations to extract the maximum code performance.
Create an optimizing compiler that can generate executable machine code
from source code.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Canvas
URL for Resource:  https://canvas.tamu.edu/
This material Is: Required
Engineering a Compiler, 3rd Edition
ISBN:  9780128154120
Authors:  Keith D. Cooper and Linda Torczon
Publisher:  Morgan Kaufmann
Edition:  3rd
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[10.0pt bold] In-class Quizzes:  140 points total
[10.0pt bold] Labs:  460 points total. 3 programming labs. Lab1 is worth 60 points, Lab2 and Lab3 are
[10.0pt] each worth 200 points.
[10.0pt bold] Midterm exam:  200 points
[10.0pt bold] Final exam:  200 points
[10.0pt bold] Class participation:  30 points
A >= 900 points
B = 800-899 points
C = 700-799 points
D = 600-699 points
F = <600 points
[10.0pt] We will make an effort to complete the grading of work within one week of the turnin date. If
[10.0pt bold] you believe your work was graded incorrectly or incompletely, you must  submit a regrade
[10.0pt bold] request in Gradescope within one week.  Only if you can prove to the grader that your
[10.0pt] solution is correct and complete will your work be regraded.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late work will not be accepted in the class, except for students with an excused absence.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Weekly Topics
Week
Topic
[10.0pt] 1
[10.0pt] Introduction, Course Mechanics
[10.0pt] Lexical Analysis 1
[10.0pt] 2
[10.0pt] Lexical Analysis 2
[10.0pt] Context-Free Grammars, Top-Down Parsing
[10.0pt] 3
[10.0pt] LL(1) Grammars, Recursive Descent Parsing
[10.0pt] Bottom-up LR(1) Parsing
[10.0pt] 4
[10.0pt] LR(1) Parsing Examples, LR(1) Table Construction
[10.0pt] Practical Parsing Considerations
[10.0pt] 5
[10.0pt] Intermediate Representations
[10.0pt] 6
[10.0pt] Syntax-Driven Translation
[10.0pt] 7
[10.0pt] Storage Layout
[10.0pt] 8
[10.0pt] Implementing Procedure and Function Calls
[10.0pt bold] Midterm Exam (Date and Time TBD)
[10.0pt] 9
[10.0pt] Code Shape
[10.0pt] 10
[10.0pt] Optimization
[10.0pt] 11
[10.0pt] Instruction Selection
[10.0pt] 12
[10.0pt] Just-In-Time Compilation
[10.0pt] 13
[10.0pt] Register Allocation
[10.0pt] 14
[10.0pt] Instruction Scheduling
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[13.0pt] No Use of Generative AI Tools Permitted
According to the Texas A&M University Definitions of Academic Misconduct, plagiarism is the
appropriation of another person's ideas, processes, results or words without giving
appropriate credit (aggiehonor.tamu.edu). You should credit your use of anyone else's words,
graphic images, or ideas using standard citation styles. Artificial Intelligence (AI) text
generators and natural language processing tools (colloquially, chatbots - such as ChatGPT),
audio, computer code, video, and image generators should not be used for any work for this
class without explicit permission of the instructor and appropriate attribution. This includes,
but is not limited to,
i. Creating or revising drafts
ii. Editing your work
iii. Reviewing a peer's work
This excludes pre-existing software additions such as spelling and grammar checkers, which
are acceptable.
All assignments should be fully prepared by the student. Developing strong competencies in
the skills associated with this course, from student-based brainstorming to project
development, will prepare you for success in your degree pathway and, ultimately, a
competitive career. Therefore, the use of generative AI tools to complete any aspect of
assignments for this course are not permitted and will be treated as plagiarism. If you have
questions about what constitutes a violation of this statement, please contact the instructor.
[14.0pt] Academic Integrity Statements and Policy