<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 222 Syllabus
Section 551 (45726)
Discrete Structures for Computing
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 09:35AM
End Time: 10:50AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  KIRK 206
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Yanlai Wu
Email:  yanlaiwu@tamu.edu
Office Location:  ECRB 309C
Phone:  409-740-5514
Office Hours
TR 11:00am-12:00pm
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Discrete Structures for Computing. (3-0). Credit 3. Mathematical foundations from
discrete mathematics for analyzing computer algorithms, for both correctness and
performance; introduction to models of computation, including finite state
machines and Turing machines. Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in MATH 142,
MATH 147, MATH 151, or MATH 171. Cross-listed with ECEN 222.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in MATH 142, MATH 147,
MATH 151, or MATH 171. Cross Listing: ECEN 222/CSCE 222.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
understand the basic principles of logic, proofs and sets.
apply results from discrete mathematics to the analysis of algorithms.
produce proofs by induction and apply counting techniques.
explain models of computation.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Discrete Mathematics and Its Applications
ISBN:  978-1-259-67651-2
Authors:  Kenneth H. Rosen
Publisher:  McGraw Hill
Publication Date:  2019
Edition:  8th
URL for Resource:
https://drive.google.com/file/d/14zRX27_oI5rBU_kgo7IgUqcIwToF7eaJ/view?
usp=sharing (must use TAMU Google account to access)
[16.0pt] Additional Instructional Materials
This Material is: Optional
Course videos: (must use TAMU Google account to access)
Authors:  Zoran Budimli ć
URL for Resource:
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1PX2aZWVBYGLlddLHeDv6me5wfaWaZL4h?
usp=drive_link
This Material is: Optional
Overleaf
Subtitle:  LaTeX in the cloud
URL for Resource:  https://overleaf.com
This Material is: Optional
(The Not So Short) Introduction to LaTeX
URL for Resource:  http://faculty.cse.tamu.edu/hlee/csce222/lshort.pdf
Notes:
[13.0pt] (Skim Chapter 1 and Study Chapter 3)
This Material is: Optional
Short Math Guide for LaTeX
URL for Resource:  http://faculty.cse.tamu.edu/hlee/csce222/downes-short-math-
guide.pdf
This Material is: Optional
Comprehensive LaTeX Symbol List
URL for Resource:  http://faculty.cse.tamu.edu/hlee/csce222/LaTexSymbols-
letter.pdf
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[12.0pt bold] Quizzes:  25 points each (x10, but only top 8 counted)
[12.0pt bold] Homeworks:  20 points each (x12, but lowest two dropped). A subset of
[12.0pt] each homework will be graded for correctness. The other problems will be
[12.0pt] graded for completeness only.
[12.0pt bold] You are encouraged to discuss concepts with others, but  you must do all
[12.0pt bold] assignments by yourself  unless specifically instructed otherwise. If you
[12.0pt] refer to any source while doing your homework, you must give credit in your
[12.0pt] solution, (this holds true whether it be a person, paper, book, solution set,
[12.0pt bold] web page or whatever). You MUST write up the assignments  in your own
[12.0pt bold] words.  Never copy someone else’s words and turn them in. For example,
[12.0pt] “the academic integrity policy on this syllabus was based on one obtained
[12.0pt] from Prof. Jennifer Welch”, or “Sally Smith walked me through the solution to
[12.0pt] #38 and then I did #39 on my own” (assuming #38 was not on the
[12.0pt] homework).
[12.0pt bold] Midterm exams:  200 points each (x 2)
[12.0pt bold] Final exam:  200 points
[12.0pt] A >= 900 points
[12.0pt] B = 800-899 points
[12.0pt] C = 700-799 points
[12.0pt] D = 600-699 points
[12.0pt] F = <600 points
[16.5pt bold] Regrading Policy
[12.0pt] We will make an effort to complete the grading of work within one week of
[12.0pt] the turnin date. If you believe your work was graded incorrectly or
[12.0pt bold] incompletely, you must email the instructor and/or TA  within one week.  Only
[12.0pt] if you can prove to the grader that your solution is correct and complete will
[12.0pt] your work be regraded.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late work will not be accepted in the class, except for students with an excused
absence. If students have difficulties finishing an assignment, contact the instructor
before  the deadline.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
The course schedule is tentative and may change slightly during the semester.
[11.0pt bold] Course Schedule
Week
Date
Topic
Required
Reading
Due Dates
1
Jan13
Jan15
Introduction
Propositional Logic
Syllabus &
1.1-1.5
2
Jan20
Jan22
Rules of Inference
Proofs
1.6-1.8
HW 1 due Tue
Quiz 1 (Thu)
3
Jan27
Jan29
Sets
Functions
2.1-2.3
HW 2 due Tue
Quiz 2 (Thu)
4
Feb3
Feb5
Sequences and Sums
Cardinality of Sets
2.4-2.5
HW 3 due Tue
Quiz 3 (Thu)
5
Feb10
Feb12
Algorithms
3.1
HW 4 due Tue
First Midterm
Exam (Thu
Feb 12)
[11.0pt bold] Course Schedule
6
Feb17
Feb19
Growth of Functions
Complexity of
Algorithms
3.2-3.3
HW 5 due Tue
Quiz 4 (Thu)
7
Feb24
Feb26
Mathematical Induction   5.1-5.2
HW 6 due Tue
Quiz 5 (Thu)
8
March3
March5
Recursive Functions
Recursive Algorithms
5.3-5.4
HW 7 due Tue
Quiz 6 (Thu)
9
Spring Break
10
March17
March19
Counting
6.1-6.4
HW 8 due Tue
Quiz 7 (Thu)
11
March24
March26
Advanced Counting
8.1-8.4
HW 9 due Tue
Quiz 8 (Thu)
12
March31
April2
Crypto Math
4.1-4.6
HW 10 due
Tue
2nd Midterm
Exam (Thu
April 2)
13
April7
April9
Relations
9.1
Quiz 9 (Thu)
14
April14
April16
Relations
9.5-9.6
HW 11 due
Tue
15
April21
April23
Finite State Machines
13.3
HW 12 due
Tue
Quiz 10 (Thu)
16
April 28
Languages and
Grammars
Turing Machines
13.1-13.5
[12.0pt] Final exam date: (from  Registrar's website ). Section 551: Thurs, April 30, 12:30
p.m. - 2:30 p.m.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[18.0pt bold] Generative AI Policy
[12.0pt] Writing:  Use of AI tools, including ChatGPT, is permitted in this course for
[12.0pt] students who wish to use them. To adhere to our scholarly values, students
[12.0pt] must cite any AI-generated material that informed their work (this includes in-
[12.0pt] text citations and/or use of quotations, and in your reference list). Using an
[12.0pt] AI tool to generate content without proper attribution qualifies as academic
[12.0pt bold] dishonesty. See  www.chicagomanualofstyle.org   for information how to
[12.0pt] properly cite AI tools.
[12.0pt] (adapted from University of Massachusetts Amherst)