<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] ISEN 320 Syllabus
Section 503 (47028)
Operations Research I
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 12:45PM
End Time: 2:00PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ETB 1027
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Akis Pardalos
Email:  apardalos@tamu.edu
Office Location:  4010
Phone:  N/A
Office Hours
R 11:45am-12:45pm in-person
W 2:00-3:00pm online (or by appointment)
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Operations Research I. (3-0). Credit 3. Development and application of fundamental
deterministic optimization models and solution methods; focus on quantitative
modeling and formulation of linear, integer, and network flow problems; use of
computer optimization software to model and solve real-life problems.
Prerequisites: Grade of C or better in MATH 304 or MATH 323.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in MATH 304 or MATH 323.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
analyze real-world problems and determine the appropriate modeling
framework (LP, IP or NF),
formulate linear, integer and network flow models considering elements of
real-world problems,
solve the models for their optimal solutions (or identify if none exists), and
interpret the models’ solutions and infer solutions to the real-world
problems.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Introduction to Mathematical Programming
ISBN:  0-534-35964-7
Authors:  Wayne L. Winston and M. Venkataramanan
Publisher:  Duxbury Press
Publication Date:  2003
Edition:  4th
This material Is: Recommended
AMPL: A Modeling Language for Mathematical Programming
ISBN:  0-534-38809-4
Authors:  Fourer, et al.
Publisher:  Duxbury Press
Publication Date:  Duxbury Press, 2002
Edition:  2nd
URL for Resource:  http://www.ampl.com/BOOK/download.html
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[11.0pt bold] Final grades  will be based on this scale: A: [90-100], B: [80-90), C: [70-80), D: [60-70), F:
[0,60)
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Topic
Weeks
Course Introduction
0.5
Modeling and software review
1
Graphical solution of LP
0.5
Simplex Method
2.5
Revised Simplex method and solving large LP’s
1.5
Duality and complementary slackness
1.5
Sensitivity analysis
1.5
IP solution techniques
1.5
Transportation and assignment problems
1
Network models
2
Class conclusion
0.5
[11.0pt bold] Total Weeks
14.0
[16.0pt] AI Statement
According to the Texas A&M University Definitions of Academic Misconduct, plagiarism is the
appropriation of another person's ideas, processes, results or words without giving
appropriate credit ( aggiehonor.tamu.edu ). You should credit your use of anyone else's words,
graphic images, or ideas using standard citation styles. AI text generators (ChatGPT, Google
Bard, etc.) should not be used for any work for this class without explicit permission of the
instructor and appropriate attribution. This includes, but is not limited to:
Creating or revising drafts
Editing your work
Reviewing a peer's work
This excludes pre-existing software additions such as spelling and grammar checkers, which
are acceptable.
Such use of AI text generators in this manner could be considered plagiarism and cheating
according to Student Rule 20. More information may also be found
at  https://aggiehonor.tamu.edu  or you may contact your instructor if you have questions.