<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 727 Syllabus
Section 600 (58447)
Algorithmic Foundations of Big Data Computing
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 12:45PM
End Time: 2:00PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 592
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Victoria Crawford
Email:  vcrawford@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR420
Phone:  9794583870
Office Hours
Tuesdays 2-4pm
Preferred Contact Method
Email
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Algorithmic Foundations of Big Data Computing. (3-0). Credit 3. Design and analysis
of algorithms to analyze large sets of data in fields such as machine learning and
data mining; streaming algorithms; parallel algorithms; sublinear time algorithms;
sketching algorithms; applications of these algorithms; theoretical analysis of these
algorithms as well as practical implementations for real problems. Prerequisites:
CSCE 629 or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  CSCE 629 or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Describe the algorithmic challenges associated with datasets that are too large to fit
into the memory of a single computer.
Describe and compare a variety of approaches that previously have been developed
in the research literature for this challenging setting.
Develop and analyze their own algorithms for a variety of applications.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Optional
No textbook needed
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[12.0pt] Exams  – Students’ understanding of the material will be assessed using a sequence of
three proctored exams (see schedule below).
[12.0pt] Graded Attendance –  Class participation will be expected. Attendance will be taken at
each class. The grade for attendance will be the number of attended lectures, or excused
absences divided by the total number of classes. If a student has an excused absence, they
should provide documentation within one week after the missed class.
Project - Each student will do a project on a topic of their interest related to the course. The
project grade will be based on the implementation, and a presentation made to the class
presenting the project.
Grading policy:
Attendance: 10%
3 exams covering material from class: 60% (20% each)
Project: 20%
Project presentation: 10%
Grade range:
90-100% A
80-90% B
70-80% C
60-70% D
Below 60% F
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Plan for course each week
Week
Activity
1
Introduction, background review
2
Background review
Week
Activity
3
Sublinear time algorithms
4
Streaming algorithms
5
Streaming algorithms,  Exam 1
6
Coresets
7
Coresets
8
Data selection for ML
9
Data selection,  Exam 2
10
Parallel algorithms
11
Distributed algorithms
12
Applications
13
Applications,  Exam 3
14
Project presentations
15
Project presentations