<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 463 Syllabus
Section 550 (58972)
Networks and Distributed Processing
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 10:20AM
End Time: 11:10AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  KIRK 206
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: W
Start Time: 12:40PM
End Time: 1:30PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  KIRK 206
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Marian Zaki
Email:  mzaki@tamu.edu
Office Location:  Engineering Classroom and Research Building (ECRB) – Room
309F
Phone:  409-740-5511
Office Hours
M 11:30 AM – 1:00 PM
T 9:30 PM – 10:30 AM
F 9:00 AM – 12:30 PM By appointment
Preferred Contact Method
mzaki@tamu.edu
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Networks and Distributed Processing. (3-0). Credit 3. Basic hardware/software,
architectural components for computer communications; computer networks,
switching, routing, protocols and security; multiprocessing and distributed
processing; interfacing operating systems and networks; case studies of existing
networks and network architectures. Prerequisite: CSCE 313 or approval of
instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  CSCE 313 or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
At the end of the course students will be able to utilize operating-system sockets
APIs, create efficient network applications and build multi-threaded decentralized
frameworks, analyze performance and security of networks, develop protocols, and
construct models of their system.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Computer Networking a Top-Down Approach
ISBN:  978-0-13-668155-7
Authors:  James F. Kurose and Keith W. Ross
Publisher:  Pearson
Edition:  8th Edition
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Course Evaluation
Method of Evaluation
​Weight
Mini-Exams (estimated 3 in total)
15%
Final Exam
15%
Assignments
30%
Course Project
30%
Attendance and Active Classroom Participation
10%
[11.0pt bold] Total Possible Score
[11.0pt bold] 100%
Letter Grades
​Grade
Range
[10.0pt] A
[10.0pt] 90 ≤ Score
[10.0pt] B
[10.0pt] 80 ≤ Score < 90
[10.0pt] C
[10.0pt] 70 ≤ Score < 80
[10.0pt] D
[10.0pt] 60 ≤ Score < 70
[10.0pt] F
[10.0pt] Score < 60
[11.0pt bold] Attendance and Active Classroom Participation
Coming prepared   for class is defined as having studied the material
covered in the previous class or any pre-assigned readings and arriving at
class on time.
10% of the course grade will be assigned to attendance, active classroom
participation and general classroom behavior and etiquette. Here are the
things that can result in points deducted
Missing more than 2 classes without prior notification and acceptable
absence (See attendance policy section)
Cell phone use
Arriving more than 5 minutes late to class
Having earbuds/headphones on (even if not being used)
Browsing Internet, playing games or working on other course work
during class time
Random walks in and out of class
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Each student gets  one free pass  for a late submission (up to 3 days) with
no penalty. The free pass must be claimed before the deadline (student
must email the professor). One day late submission will have 10% points
deducted, two days late submission will have 20% points deducted. No later
submissions will be graded. The free pass can be reclaimed for extra credit
at the end of the semester if never utilized (great deal!)
Students with 504 accommodations will get the necessary accommodations
per their accommodation letter
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Refer to Canvas for detailed information regarding each week’s lecture topics and
assignments. The following schedule is tentative and subject to change (dates, times
and topics of certain exams or assignments might change) based on student and
course progress. Assignments and projects due dates will be advertised in Canvas.
Any changes to be made on the go, will be clearly communicated with students in
class.
Course Schedule
[11.0pt bold] Dates
[11.0pt bold] Week   Topics
01/12 – 01/14
01
Course Introduction and Overview
Chapter 1:
Internet Protocols
Network Edge and Core
Setting up Dev Tools – Linux VM + VSCode with C++ plugins + Assig 1: Wireshark
getting started
Assig 1: Intro to Wireshark Lab
01/19
02
No Lecture – Martin Luther King, Jr. Day
01/21
02
Chapter 1 – cont. :
Performance
Security
Network Layers
History
Assig 2: Circuit Switching vs. Packet Switching
01/26 – 01/28
03
Introduction to Sockets programming and Multithreading
principles
Project 1: Event-Driven Client/Server Application
02/02 – 02/04
04
Mini-Exam 1: Chapter 1
Chapter 2:
Principles of Network Applications
Web and HTTP
02/09 – 02/11
05
Chapter 2 – cont:
FTP
E-mail
DNS
P2P File Sharing
Assig 3: Wireshark HTTP and DNS Lab
[11.0pt bold] Dates
[11.0pt bold] Week   Topics
02/16 – 02/18
06
Chapter 3:
Transport Layer Services
Multiplexing and Demultiplexing
Connectionless Transport
Project 2: DNS Faulty Client Application
02/23 – 02/25
07
Mini-Exam 2: Chapter 2
Chapter 3 – cont.:
Reliable Data Transfer
03/02 – 03/04
08
Chapter 3 – cont.:
Reliable Data Transfer
​Connection-Oriented Transport
03/09 – 03/13
--
Spring Break – No Classes
03/16 – 03/18
09
Chapter 3 – cont.:
Principles of Congestion Control
​TPC Congestion Control
Course Project Announced: Real-Time Event Streaming System
03/23 – 03/25
10
Chapter 4:
Network Layer Overview
Routers
​IP
Assig 4: CISCO Packet Tracer
03/30 – 04/01
11
Mini-Exam 3: Chapter 3
Chapter 5:
Routing Algorithms
04/06 – 04/08
12
Chapter 5 – cont.
SDN Networking
04/13 – 04/15
13
Chapter 6:
Introduction to the Link Layer
​LAN Addressing
04/20 – 04/22
14
Chapter 6 – cont.:
Multiple Access Protocols
Link-Layer Addressing
04/27 – 04/28
15
Buffer week for incomplete topics
Final Course Project Presentations
[11.0pt bold] Dates
[11.0pt bold] Week   Topics
04/29
16
No Lecture – Reading Day
04/30
16
Final Exam – Time/duration to be confirmed
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
Course Assessments and activities:
[10.0pt bold] Course Project
The course project will be completed in teams of 2-3 students
The project will aggregate different development technologies – at a course
that is a 400-level course – students are expected to utilize their
programming knowledge and ability to research resources to complete the
project requirements. This means a lot of self-learning will be required from
students. Time and dedication are essential and expected. Utilizing the right
resources in the correct way is encouraged – including generative AI tools.
Any code segments used from generative AI models must be thoroughly
verified (line by line), tested carefully and given proper citation.
Peer reviews will be part of the project assessment process, 30% of the final
project grade will be allocated to individual contribution.
[10.0pt bold] Assignments
Assignments will be regularly posted to Canvas along with the due dates.
Submission of assignments must be done through Canvas by the assigned
due date – emailed submissions shall not be graded!
Each assignment will have specific submission requirements; students are
expected to read and understand each of these requirements and ask
questions if in doubt.
Assignments will alternate between coding assignments, hands-on
Wireshark lab assignments, and CISCO packet tracer labs.
The professor reserves the right to discuss the submitted work with any
student if there is any suspicion or evidence of online or peer copying
without proper citations.
[11.0pt bold] Exams
All exams will assess the students’ understanding of the concepts discussed
throughout the course as well as their ability to apply them correctly to
solve different problems.
Students are expected to complete on their own some pre-identified end of
chapter problems from the textbook, similar problems should be expected
in exams.
[11.0pt bold] Teaching Strategies
Among human innovations, computers and networking stand out as having
the greatest impact on society: think of our world before and after computers
and the Internet. In this course we will learn and understand that networking
in its essence is the science of orchestrating layered protocols to enable
seamless communication.
Networking is also the science of balancing competing goals: efficiency,
reliability, fairness, scalability, and security, where every gain comes with a
cost elsewhere. These ideas bring in rich discussions and conversations in the
classroom, as computer scientists, our mission is to question the design of
protocols, identify trade-offs and think innovatively to solve some of the
pressing problems in networking.
The course will provide a platform for rich discussions and analysis of the
different network layers in a top-down approach. Students are encouraged to
actively participate in these discussion.
[11.0pt bold] Understanding the Course Academic Integrity
In this course, all assignments should reflect your own work unless it’s a
group assignment. You are allowed to discuss high-level concepts with your
classmates, but you are not allowed to share code nor look at each other’s
code or solutions. Academic integrity is crucial and will be taken seriously, as
it upholds the principles of honesty, fairness, and originality in students' work.
For team projects, each student's active contribution to their team is essential
for the successful completion of the project, as it upholds the integrity and
collaborative spirit expected in this course. By contributing to the project and
not relying on teammates doing all the work will foster a sense of
responsibility and accountability, which are key values in both academic and
professional settings. Teamwork encourages mutual respect, trust, and
communication, qualities that are vital for success in the real world.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Unless indicated in the assignment or project and authorized by the professor, the
use of generative AI to complete the work will be considered a violation of academic
integrity. If in doubt about what it means or counts as a utilization of generative AI,
ask the professor prior to attempting the task to avoid any unexpected penalties, in
other words: Ask for permission instead of forgiveness.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
If for any reason you are unable to attend a class you will need to email the
professor for an excused absence. The professor reserves the rights to assess if the
reason is valid or not and request any supporting documentation.
Missing quizzes or exams does not guarantee a makeup unless the reason involves
significant and unavoidable circumstances, such as severe illness or
emergencies, and is properly documented .