<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 312 Syllabus
Section 551 (46293)
Computer Organization
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 1:50PM
End Time: 2:40PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  OCSB 141
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: T
Start Time: 08:25AM
End Time: 09:15AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  PMEC 146
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 09:35AM
End Time: 10:25AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  MAIN 315
Credit Hours:  4
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Alpaslan Duysak
Email:  aduysak03@tamu.edu
Office Location:  SAGC 703
Phone:  (409) 740- 5513
Office Hours
4:00 PM-5:00 PM, Wednesday
Preferred Contact Method
email
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Computer Organization. (3-2). Credit 4. Computer systems from programmer's
perspective including simple logic design, data representation and processor
architecture, programming of processors, memory, control flow, input/output, and
performance measurements; hands-on lab assignments. Prerequisite: Grade of C
or better in CSCE 221, or concurrent enrollment.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
The course objective is to integrate key notions from algorithms, computer
architecture, compilers, and software engineering in one unified framework. This
will be done constructively, by building a general-purpose computer system from
the ground up. In the process, we will explore many ideas and techniques used in
the design of modern hardware and software systems and discuss major trade-offs
and future trends.
Throughout this journey, you will gain many cross-section views of the computing
field, from the bare-bone details of switching circuits to the high-level abstraction of
software design. The course consists of materials on the following topics:
introduction to computer systems, data representation, machine language,
processor architecture, memory hierarchy, and assembler.
Several laboratory assignments will provide hands-on experience in many of the
above topics.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 221, or concurrent
enrollment.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Perform Basic Logic Design
Understand the design of a simple computer system
Understand elements that make up a CPU (Central Processing Unit)
Design software with an understanding of how it will run on computers
Participate in discussions that involve impact of hardware and software
elements on each other and the performance of the program
Take intermediate and advanced classes in computer architecture, systems,
operating systems, cloud, parallel computing
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
The Elements of Computing Systems, second edition
ISBN:  9780262539807
Authors:  Noam Nisan, Shimon Schocken
Publisher:  MIT Press
Publication Date:  2021-06-15
Edition:  Second Edition
URL for Resource:  https://www.nand2tetris.org/
Notes:
The first half of the textbook is available free online. This
is what we cover in the course in addition to advanced
concepts that are covered from other sources. Printed
copies of the book may be available in Campus
Bookstore and other book suppliers like Amazon, Barnes
& Noble, MIT Press, etc. Purchase of course textbook is
NOT REQUIRED.
[16.0pt] Additional Instructional Materials
This Material is: Optional
Computer Systems: A Programmer's Perspective, Global
Edition
ISBN:  9781292101774
Authors:  Randal E. Bryant, David R. O'Hallaron
Publisher:  Pearson UK
Publication Date:  2019-07-12
Notes:
Purchase of the textbook is NOT REQUIRED.
This Material is: Required
Lecture Notes
Notes:
All the baseline course materials – lecture notes, book
chapters, simulators, software tools, tutorials, and test
programs – can be downloaded freely from the course
website  http://www.nand2tetris.org .
Your teaching staff will guide you through the early
phase of software installation and Do’s and Don’ts The
supplied software can run as is on Linux or Windows or
Mac OS. The lecture notes presented in class are
modified with the Instructor’s own thoughts and inputs
as deemed necessary
The hardware projects will be done using simple
hardware description language (HDL), which can be
learned in a few hours. It is covered in the Appendix in
our Textbook and will also be covered by the TAs in the
LAB. The resulting chips (as well as the topmost
computer-on-a-chip system) will be tested and simulated
on a supplied hardware simulator, running on the
student's computer. The software projects can be done
in Java, Python, or C++. Any exceptions to this will be
noted in the project documents
Canvas
Canvas will contain some of the class materials,
assignment descriptions, and grades. You can access the
course on Canvas through your Howdy portal.
Gradescope
Some assignments, such as LABs & Projects and exams,
will be graded on Gradescope, which offers better
options for submitting online and handling print exams
than Canvas. Your account will be automatically created,
which you can activate through the sidebar in Canvas
under “Gradescope.”
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[12.0pt] This class will use a standard A, B, C, etc. scale for final grades; depending on the
[12.0pt] distribution, a curve may be applied. The instructor reserves the right to raise grades
[12.0pt] near a borderline to the next highest letter, based largely on the student’s perceived
[12.0pt] effort and participation.
Table 1. Course Grading Breakdown and Weight Distribution
[11.0pt bold] Description
[11.0pt bold] Percentage
[11.0pt bold] Category
Projects (6)
Labs (20)
30%
20%
50% Projects & Labs
Quizzes (10)
10%
20%
20%
50% Exams
Midterms (2)
Final Exam
Table 2. Final Letter Grade Scale
[11.0pt bold] A
[11.0pt bold] B
[11.0pt bold] C
[11.0pt bold] D
[11.0pt bold] F
90 - 100%
80 - 89%
70 - 79%
60 - 69%
< 60%
[12.0pt] The class is primarily structured according to a formative approach, using a collection
[12.0pt] of activities worth comparatively few points that accumulate over the course of the
[12.0pt] semester.
[12.0pt bold] Assignments:
[12.0pt] Projects &Labs, (subject to change), There will be a total of 6 projects. All projects
[12.0pt] carry equal weight unless specified. There will be a total of 20 LAB assignments.
Table 3. Course Content Blocks and Project Release Schedule
BLOCK
TOPIC (PROJECT RELEASE)
1
Introduction and Setup, Boolean Algebra, Combinational Logic Design
(Project 1)
2
Combinational Logic Design, Boolean Arithmetic (Project 2), Sequential
Logic Design (Project 3)
3
Machine Language (Project 4)
4
CPU Architecture (Project 5), Assembler (Project 6)
5
Advanced Topics: Memory Hierarchy, Virtual Memory, Cache Memory
(Project 7, Optional)
[12.0pt bold] Exams:
[12.0pt] Two regular Exams and one Final Exam represent the summative portion of the
[12.0pt] course. Exams will be a combination of problem-solving, programming, and multiple-
[12.0pt] choice questions. There will be 10 Quizzes.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[12.0pt] If a project accepts late work, submissions received after the deadline will be subject
[12.0pt] to a late penalty, which will be computed based on the number of days late. The
[12.0pt] penalty will be 15% every day, up to 4 days. After 4 days, late work will receive no
[12.0pt] credit.
[12.0pt] Additionally, you have a pool of 10 late days that you can use to extend a project
[12.0pt] (max. 3 days per project). While the projects are organized so that you have plenty of
[12.0pt] time to complete them, late days give you extra flexibility to handle unforeseen
[12.0pt] circumstances according to your own judgment.
[12.0pt] To use a late day from your pool, you must notify your TA. Be sure to specify the
[12.0pt] affected project. You are responsible for tracking your own late days!
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Table 4. Weekly schedule
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Topic(s)
[11.0pt bold] 1
Course Introduction, Computer Organization and Architecture and
Digital vs. Analog Systems
LAB: software setup & introduction
[11.0pt bold] 2
Logic expressions, Boolean Algebra, Implementation (switch, logic
gates)
LAB1: Number Systems,
LAB2: Boolean Algebra/Logic Expressions
[11.0pt bold] 3
Combinational Logic Design, Computer Arithmetic (Binary addition
concept), and building blocks.
LAB3: Realizing Basic Logic Functions
LAB4: Simple application design
[11.0pt bold] 4
Computer Arithmetic, multi-bit and multi-input adders, 2s
complement, subtractors, and ALU
LAB5: End-to-End Combinational Logic Design
LAB6: End-to-End Combinational Logic Design
[11.0pt bold] Project 1:
[11.0pt bold] 5
Sequential design (notion of time and memory, basic element of
memory, modular memory implementation)
LAB7: Multi-Way and Multi-Bit MUX and DMUX
[11.0pt bold] Project 2:
[11.0pt bold] Exam 1:
[11.0pt bold] 6
Registers, ROM, RAM, State Machine
LAB8: Adders
LAB9: Multi-Bit ripple carry adder
[11.0pt bold] 7
Machine language (big picture), anatomy of a machine language
LAB10: Serial and Parallel Register
LAB11: ALU design
[11.0pt bold] 8
Machine language (HACK computer machine language), writing basic
HACK programs
[12.0pt] LAB12:   Multi-Bit Multi-entry RAM
LAB13: Multi-Bit Multi-entry RAM
[11.0pt bold] Project 3:
[11.0pt bold] 9
Writing basic HACK programs, Computer Architecture (basic
concepts)
[11.0pt bold] Project 4:
LAB14: Sequential Logic Design
[11.0pt bold] Exam 2:
[11.0pt bold] 10
Computer Architecture (Building the HACK computer)
LAB15: Assembly programming
LAB16: HACK CPU Datapath Design
[11.0pt bold] 11
Assembler
LAB17: HACK CPU Control path Design
LAB18: HACK Computer Design
[11.0pt bold] Project 5:
[11.0pt bold] 12
Memory, high-level concept
LAB19: Concept and Implementation
[11.0pt bold] 13
Memory (Cache memory design and policies)
LAB20: Overall construction of the HACK assembler
[11.0pt bold] Project 6:
[11.0pt bold] 14
Virtual memory (Basics &Advanced)
LAB21: Project Help Session
LAB22: Project help session
[11.0pt bold] 15
Virtual Machine
LAB 23: Cache-friendly matrix multiplication (Optional)
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[12.0pt] All changes in the schedule will be announced in class and on the class
[12.0pt] calendar/Canvas.
[12.0pt] Please see also the University Academic Calendar
[12.0pt] (https://registrar.tamu.edu/Academic-Calendar).
[12.0pt] Use Canvas, Gradescope, and course drive to get access to the lecture notes, quizzes,
[12.0pt] tests, and assignments, and check your grades regularly during the semester.
[12.0pt bold] Computer
[12.0pt] You are required to have a computing device on which you have permission to install
[12.0pt] software. Please contact the instructor if you do not have a computing device. Bring
[12.0pt] Your Own Device (BYOD) is an initiative in the College of Engineering where students
[12.0pt] are required to bring their own computing devices to class. The following link explains
[12.0pt] the program and provides information about approved devices:
[12.0pt] https://engineering.tamu.edu/easa/areas/academics/byod. Approved BYOD devices
[12.0pt] fulfill the requirements for this class, although many other devices are sufficient.
[12.0pt bold] Student Rules
[12.0pt] Each student has the responsibility to be fully acquainted with and to comply with the
[12.0pt] Texas A&M University Student Rules. More specific rules, information and procedures
[12.0pt] may be found in various publications pertaining to each particular service or
[12.0pt] department. For more information, please visit http://student-rules.tamu.edu/
[12.0pt] Individual programming MUST be done on your own. You must write assignments in
[12.0pt] your own words. Plagiarism will not be tolerated, and violations will be reported to
[12.0pt] the Honor Council.
[12.0pt] To help identify possible instances of plagiarism, we may use automated systems for
[12.0pt] plagiarism detection. Students found to have engaged in plagiarism will be referred to
[12.0pt] the Aggie Honor System.
[12.0pt] Collaboration is important for facilitating learning, and your peers can be a great
[12.0pt] resource. So you are encouraged to discuss problems and general approaches with
[12.0pt] each other (but not actual solutions). Regardless, unless stated otherwise, all
[12.0pt] assignments must be done on your own. It is okay to share general approaches,
[12.0pt] directions, and so on. You may not look at someone else’s code (online or in person).
[12.0pt] If you have an issue that needs clarification, contact an instructor or TA. Additional
[12.0pt] overriding instructions and grading policies on permitted collaboration may be
[12.0pt] provided in the project documents
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[12.0pt] The use of artificial intelligence (AI) tools, including code-generation and language-
[12.0pt] model systems, is permitted in this course only when explicitly allowed by the
[12.0pt] instructor. Students are responsible for ensuring that all submitted work reflects their
[12.0pt] own understanding and complies with Texas A&M University’s academic integrity
[12.0pt] standards. Unless otherwise stated, AI tools may not be used to generate complete
[12.0pt] solutions or replace independent reasoning. Any authorized use of AI must be clearly
[12.0pt] disclosed, and students remain fully accountable for the correctness, originality, and
[12.0pt] integrity of their work.
[12.0pt] Course materials, including lecture notes, simulators, software tools, and
[12.0pt] assignments, will be provided through Canvas and the course drive. The primary
[12.0pt] reference is The Elements of Computing Systems (Nisan & Schocken), with the first
[12.0pt] half available free online at nand2tetris.org. Students are expected to have access to a
[12.0pt] personal computer capable of running the required software.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
[12.0pt] Attendance is important in this class as a means to keep current with the material,
[12.0pt] especially in labs, so students are encouraged to attend.
[12.0pt] Lab attendance will be evaluated based on your being present in the lab and
[12.0pt] submitting the lab work.
[12.0pt] Class attendance will be based on in-class activities and quizzes.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Makeup Work Policy
[12.0pt bold] Late Submissions:
[12.0pt] If a project accepts late work, submissions received after the deadline will be subject
[12.0pt] to a late penalty, which will be computed based on the number of days late. The
[12.0pt] penalty will be 15% every day, up to 4 days. After 4 days, late work will receive no
[12.0pt] credit.
[12.0pt] Additionally, you have a pool of 10 late days that you can use to extend a project
[12.0pt] (max. 3 days per project). While the projects are organized so that you have plenty of
[12.0pt] time to complete them, late days give you extra flexibility to handle unforeseen
[12.0pt] circumstances according to your own judgment.
[12.0pt] To use a late day from your pool, you must notify your TA. Be sure to specify the
[12.0pt] affected project. You are responsible for tracking your own late days!