<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 312 Syllabus
Section 510 (58370)
Computer Organization
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 11:10AM
End Time: 12:25PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 244
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 3:30PM
End Time: 4:20PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 590
Credit Hours:  4
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Abdullah Muzahid
Email:  abdullah.muzahid@tamu.edu
Office Location:  Peterson 206
Phone:  9794581059
Office Hours
Wed 3:00PM-5:00PM
Preferred Contact Method
In Person
Webpage:  https://people.tamu.edu/~abdullah.muzahid/index.html
Biography
I am an Associate Professor in the department of Computer Science and
Engineering at Texas A&M University. I have joined here in Fall 2028. My research
area is broadly computer architecture and systems with recent focus on machine
learning and security.
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Computer Organization. (3-2). Credit 4. Computer systems from programmer's
perspective including simple logic design, data representation and processor
architecture, programming of processors, memory, control flow, input/output, and
performance measurements; hands-on lab assignments. Prerequisite: Grade of C
or better in CSCE 221, or concurrent enrollment.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
The goal of this course is to provide the student with a working knowledge of different
methods for logic representation, manipulation, use of hardware and logic simulation tools
to describe and simulate computer operation, instruction set architecture, and central
processing unit organization. At the end of the course the student should be able to view the
design of digital systems from a new perspective and have an understanding of several
fundamental concepts that can be applied to a wide variety of computer architectures.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 221, or concurrent
enrollment.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Perform Basic Logic Design
Understand the design of a simple computer system
Understand elements that make up a CPU (Central Processing Unit)
Design software with an understanding of how it will run on computers
Participate in discussions that involve impact of hardware and software
elements on each other and the performance of the program
Take intermediate and advanced classes in computer architecture,
systems, operating systems, cloud, parallel computing
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Computer Systems - A Programmer's Perspective
Authors:  Randal Bryant, David O'Hallaron
Edition:  3rd
This material Is: Optional
Logic and Computer Design Fundamentals
Authors:  M. Morris Mano, Charles R. Kime and Tom Martin
Edition:  5th
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[13.5pt] Grading Breakdown
[12.0pt bold] Item
[12.0pt bold] Percentage
Exams (3 Exams)    40%
[12.0pt bold] Item
[12.0pt bold] Percentage
Labs
35%
Quizzes
20%
Attendance
5%
Grading Scale:
A: 90-100%
B: 80-89%
C: 70-79%
D: 60-69%
F: 0-59%
Note: in the event that the average overall grade of all students lies below 80%, there will be
a curve on the overall grade. I will not curve the individual exams and assignments. Curving
will be done by adding necessary points to make the class average 80%. For example, if the
average overall grade is 75%, I will add 5% to every student.
Exams:
There will be three exams. Final exam will be comprehensive.
Tentative Test schedule:
[11.0pt bold] Exam 1 – Feb 26, 2026 (class time)
[11.0pt bold] Exam 2 – April 9, 2026 (class time)
[11.0pt bold] Final Exam - April 30, 2026 (3:00 PM - 5:00 PM) in class
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Assignments/Quizzes:
Rather than traditional homework, this course will rely upon a series of on-line quiz
assessments. The goal of these quizzes will be to test your knowledge of the lecture material
and pinpoint which lectures you should go back and review on-line. There will be one quiz
for each week, this quiz must be completed prior to the next week's lecture.
Students may retake the quiz as many times as 3 times. The highest score will be recorded.
[11.0pt bold] If the quiz submission is delayed, each late day is penalized by 20%. For example, if a
[11.0pt bold] quiz is submitted 2 days after the due date, it will receive 60% of the actual points.
Labs:
The course will have six or seven labs (tentative). Generally, labs and/or demos must be
[11.0pt bold] completed in one or two week following the lab's introduction.    Late submissions will have
[11.0pt bold] 20% of the points deducted for each late day (just like quizzes).
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Week 1: Introduction to digital logic design
Week 2, 3: Logic design basics and combinatorial circuit design
Week 4, 5: Sequential Logic
Week 6 - 11: Assembly Language Programming
Week 12 - 15: Processor Design
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Unless otherwise specified, the use of Automated Writing Tools, including ChatGPT and
similar artificial intelligence (AI) tools, is strictly prohibited in this course, even when
properly attributed. The use of automated writing tools is considered plagiarism and will be
handled in accordance with existing policy.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
Students are expected to attend and be active discussion participants during the lectures
[11.0pt bold] (answering questions posed, asking questions, commenting etc.).  Students who attend less
[11.0pt bold] than 80% lectures will receive a 0 for this part of their grade .
[16.0pt] Course Specific Makeup Work Policy
There is no make up of missed assignments, labs or exams except in extremely rare cases
[11.0pt bold] such as medical emergency and such. In that case,  you need to ask explicit permission of
[11.0pt bold] the instructor   before the assignment/lab/exam . Without prior explicit permission, there
will not be any make up assignments/labs/exams.