<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 482 Syllabus
Section 940 (60096)
Senior Capstone Design
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 08:00AM
End Time: 08:25AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ISIT 120
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 08:30AM
End Time: 11:00AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ISIT 120
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Alpaslan Duysak
Email:  aduysak03@tamu.edu
Office Location:  SAGC 703
Phone:  409) 740- 5513
Office Hours
3:00 PM-4:00 PM, Monday
Preferred Contact Method
Email
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Senior Capstone Design. (1-6). Credit 3. Development of system integration skills for
solving real-world problems in computer science; significant team software project
that uses integration of advanced concepts across computer science
specializations; projects require design, implementation, documentation and
demonstration, as well as design methodology, management process and
teamwork. Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in CSCE 411, and CSCE 315 or CSCE
331; senior classification; also taught at Galveston campus.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
This course will prepare you for engineering practice with a major design experience based
on the knowledge and skills you acquired in earlier coursework. Your design will incorporate
engineering standards and realistic constraints that include most of the following
considerations: economic, environmental, sustainability, manufacturability, ethical, health,
safety, and social.
[11.0pt bold] We will cover many topics, including:
Identifying engineering problems
Project management tools
Ethics in the discipline
Communicating problem motivation and needs
Exploring existing solutions
Designing a computing system and user interface
Evaluating a computing system through user studies and benchmark testing
Analyzing and interpreting data
Communicating and summarizing results, both written and oral.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 411, and CSCE 315 or
CSCE 331; senior classification; also taught at Galveston campus.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
[12.0pt] Analyze a complex computing problem and apply principles of computing
[12.0pt] and other relevant disciplines to identify solutions.
[12.0pt] Design, implement, and evaluate a computing-based solution to meet a
[12.0pt] given set of computing requirements in the context of the program's
[12.0pt] discipline.
[12.0pt] Communicate effectively in a variety of professional contexts.
[12.0pt] Recognize professional responsibilities and make informed judgments in
[12.0pt] computing practice based on legal and ethical principles.
[12.0pt] Collaborate effectively as a member or leader of a team engaged in
[12.0pt] activities appropriate to the program's discipline.
[12.0pt] Apply computer science theory and software implementation
[12.0pt] fundamentals to produce computing-based solutions.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
UCRT - University Required Oral Communication
C (communication-intensive course)
As a communication-intensive course, you will receive instruction on writing and public
speaking and complete assignments so you can practice communication related to the major.
[11.0pt bold] You must pass the written and oral components with a C or better to earn a passing
[11.0pt bold] grade in the course.
[11.0pt bold] Failure to pass the communication components with a C or better results in an F for the
[11.0pt bold] course.
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
The Design of Everyday Things
Publication Date:  2013
Notes:
Available free online at TAMU Libraries.
This material Is: Required
The Five Dysfunctions of a Team: a Leadership Fable
Authors:  Patrick M. Lencioni
Publisher:  Jossey-Bass
Publication Date:  2002
Notes:
[12.0pt] Available free online at TAMU Libraries
[16.0pt] Additional Instructional Materials
This Material is: Optional
Universal Principles of Design, How to Design Programs, Principles of Computer
System Design, The 2020 Scrum Guide, Manifesto for Agile Software Development,
Impact Engineering: Transforming Beyond Agile Project Management
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[11.0pt bold] The final grade you will receive in the class will be  based on points accumulated  during the
semester. Thus, both continued progress (the journey) and the quality of your product and
other deliverables (the destination) will determine your grade. Part of your grade is based on
the performance of your team. The other part of your grade is based on your individual
performance (demonstration of mastery of course objectives).
[11.0pt bold] As a communication course,  you must pass the communication components (both written
[11.0pt bold] and oral) with a C or better to earn a passing grade in the course. Failure to pass the
[11.0pt bold] communication components with a C or better results in an F for the course.
[11.0pt bold] Any academic misconduct in this course will result in a grade of F*  (the star (*) indicates
academic dishonesty).
[11.0pt bold] If warranted, the course instructor, with input from the teaching assistant and the
[11.0pt bold] project sponsor, may assign a failing grade regardless of your computed final score.
[11.0pt bold] Failing to complete the User Study activity (part of the testing component) will result in
[11.0pt bold] a failing grade in the course.
[11.0pt bold] A score of less than 70% in any component (see "Grading Components" below) will
[11.0pt bold] result in a letter grade reduction.  This is how we implement mastery grading in this course.
You are expected to revise and resubmit work that falls below this threshold so that, in the
end, you will have a score of at least 70% in each component.
[11.0pt bold] Grading Scale:
Grades will be assigned according to:
(define (grade x)
(cond ((< x 60) "F")
((< x 70) "D")
((< x 80) "C")
((< x 90) "B")
(else "A")))
These grades represent varying degrees of achievement (see the  university's grading system ):
A = excellent, B = good, C = satisfactory, D = passing, F = failing.
We do not curve in this course:    is not an A.
This course employs mastery grading, which means that we have clear expectations in terms
of the knowledge and skills you must demonstrate by the end of the course to earn a C (a
grade of D may be "passing" for the University, but it is not "passing" for Computer Science
and Engineering). If you participate fully, revise and resubmit work based on feedback, and
work equitably with your team, you should easily earn at least a C. You will have
opportunities to earn a grade higher than C by demonstrating excellence above and beyond
the minimum expectations of the course.
[11.0pt bold] Grading Components:
Your grade for this course reflects your mastery of course material and is determined by
[11.0pt bold] multiple components. Note that  you will not receive a passing grade in the class if you do
[11.0pt bold] not have a working, tested, and evaluated system by the end of the semester . The lower
weighted items will significantly help you succeed in your higher-weighted items. Even if a
component has a very low point value, it is crucial to your later success in the higher point
components.
[12.0pt] Table 1. Course Grading Breakdown and
[12.0pt] Weight Distribution
[12.0pt bold] Component
[12.0pt bold] Weight
[12.0pt] Written Communication
[12.0pt] Elements
[12.0pt] 20%
[12.0pt] Project Completeness and Final
[12.0pt] Deliverables
[12.0pt] 20%
[12.0pt] Individual Contribution
[12.0pt] 15%
[12.0pt] Oral Communication Elements
[12.0pt] 15%
[12.0pt] Project Management
[12.0pt] 5%
[12.0pt] Testing
[12.0pt] 10%
[12.0pt] Status Updates
[12.0pt] 5%
[12.0pt] Ethics
[12.0pt] 5%
[12.0pt] Peer Feedback and Peer
[12.0pt] Evaluation
[12.0pt] 3%
[12.0pt] Recall Practices
[12.0pt] 2%
[12.0pt] Total
[12.0pt] 100%
[11.0pt bold] Written Communication Elements - 20%:  You will have several technical writing
assignments including (but not limited to) problem formation, related literature review,
project proposals, documentation, reflection, and your final report. Your writing will be
critiqued on its thoroughness and effectiveness in communicating key aspects of your system
such as its motivation, approach, evaluation, and engineering standard. Your documentation
will be critiqued on its completeness to properly execute and understand the details of your
system. Some assignments will require you to incorporate peer feedback to refine your
communication.
[11.0pt bold] Oral Communication Elements - 15%:  You will have several presentation assignments.
You will have opportunity to practice presenting posters, more formal slide presentations,
leading meetings, facilitating discussions, and creating short videos. Some assignments will
require you to incorporate peer feedback to refine your communication. Your final
[11.0pt bold] presentation will be to the instructors and external panelists.  All team members must
[11.0pt bold] actively participate in the final presentation.  You will also give live system demonstrations
to the class at multiple points in the course. Additionally, at least one member of your team
will present your project at the CSCE Capstone Expo, the college's  Engineering Project
Showcase , and possibly other events to provide you with extra practice in communicating
your work and responding to external feedback.
[11.0pt bold] Project Completeness and Final Deliverables - 20%:  Your team will be assessed on the
projects completeness and scope through live demonstrations. You will also submit fully
[11.0pt bold] working, evaluated, and documented code to your team's GitHub repository.  All final
[11.0pt bold] deliverables are due on the last day of class at 11:59pm. Course grades will not be
[11.0pt bold] assigned until  all final deliverables have been turned in, all borrowed items have been
returned to their proper location or their owner including keys, books, hardware, equipment,
or other items supplied by the department, and the workstations in the lab have been
thoroughly cleaned up.
[11.0pt bold] Individual Contribution - 15%:  You will be assessed on your personal contribution to the
team's success with the project. This will be determined from status update evidence, team
communication channels, logged code commits, peer evaluations, engagement in team
activities, and instructor/TA observations. You are responsible for ensuring that your
contributions are part of the record of the team's work on the project, e.g. commits, pull
requests, project tracker activity, notes from meetings, etc.
[11.0pt bold] Project Management - 5% :   You will create project management artifacts specific to your
chosen software development methodology. You will be also assessed on your team's ability
to keep to the project schedule. All teams will specify team member roles and produce user
stories. You are also expected to use GitHub for version control and commit to your team's
repository multiple times a week during the project development phase, if not daily. You are
expected to use an industry-standard tool fro project management/tracking, e.g. GitHub
Projects, PivotalTracker, Trello, etc.
[11.0pt bold] Testing - 10%:  Your project must be evaluated in accordance with industry standards, so you
need to test the technical performance of your developed materials as your project goes on.
[11.0pt bold] You are expected to develop an  automated test suite  for your project. You should also have
appropriate unit testing, integration testing, and system testing throughout your code to verify
functionality. You will also have user acceptance testing through a user study to evaluate your
[11.0pt bold] system's ability to solve your problem.  All team members must complete the required
[11.0pt bold] CITI
[11.0pt bold] Training before the team can begin a user study.  You will be assessed on how well you
have prepared and conducted the evaluation of your system, both internally (through
unit/integration/system testing) and externally (through user study). Note that completing the
user study is a required part of the course and is not optional and you will, therefore, receive a
failing grade if you do not complete it.
[11.0pt bold] Status Updates - 5%:  You will submit weekly status update reports, both individually and as
a team, and hold a weekly status update meeting with your entire team and your instructor
and TA during class hours. Team members should take turns taking meeting minutes,
submitting team reports, and leading the weekly meeting discussion. Reports and meeting
minutes should be archived/backed-up/copied/stored/committed/checked-in/etc. so that they
are always and easily accessible by the team and the instructors.
[11.0pt bold] Recall Practice - 2%:  Every class (including the first class) will start with a short quiz to
practice recalling information. They will include material about your assignments, questions
about your design choices, and knowledge that you should have gained from your past
computer science courses. Research has repeatedly shown that practicing recalling
information, e.g. through quizzing, improves the ability to recall information better than
attending lectures or studying alone. Thus, this not only lets us know where your knowledge
might be lacking so that we may be able to correct it within this class, but it also serves to
help you acquire and access you the knowledge that you need to have.
[11.0pt bold] Peer Feedback and Peer Evaluation - 3%:  Peer feedback of others' work is crucial. It is
important that your feedback is of high quality. You will give feedback to your peers regularly
throughout the semester on their project ideas, written work, presentations, and
demonstrations. In addition, each member of your project team will evaluate the performance
of your other team members at multiple points throughout the semester. You will use these
[11.0pt bold] peer evaluations to adjust how you interact and collaborate in your team.  Failure to
[11.0pt bold] sufficiently participate in peer evaluations of your team members will result in a letter
[11.0pt bold] grade reduction  (where "sufficiently" means at least 70% and follows from the policy that
any component with a score less than 70% results in a letter grade reduction).
[11.0pt bold] Ethics - 5%:  You will complete various activities and assignments to explore the ethics in the
discipline. All team members must complete the CITI training before beginning a user study
which is a required part of the course.
[11.0pt bold] Class Participation:  The instructors will evaluate your attendance to class sessions,
[11.0pt bold] participation in the discussions, and contributions to the team.  More than 5 unexcused
[11.0pt bold] absences will result in a letter grade reduction. Coming significantly late to class will
[11.0pt bold] count as an unexcused absence.  (Excused absences do not count toward this total.) Note
that days in which teams may need to work in a remote location to accomplish certain
assignments (e.g., presenting your work at a conference, interviewing experts, meeting with
mentors, accessing technologies outside of the classroom, etc.) do not count toward absences
provided they are approved by the instructor in advance, abide by the instructor’s
requirements for check-in during course time, abide by any activity reporting requirements by
the instructor, and all assignments relevant to that class time are completed on-time.
[11.0pt bold] Submission of Assignments:
All assignments will be turned in electronically though Canvas (unless otherwise specified)
by the due date and time given on the assignment. Email submissions will not be accepted.
Unless otherwise noted on the syllabus or in the assignment instructions, all assignments will
be due by 8:00am on the due date (before classes start for the day).
[11.0pt bold] Submitting in-class assignments (such as recall practices, peer feedback, and
[11.0pt bold] assignments requiring class interaction) while not physically attending class will be
[11.0pt bold] considered an academic integrity violation, reported to the Aggie Honor System Office,
[11.0pt bold] and the penalty of F* in the course will be assigned.  This does not apply to weekly status
update reports.
[11.0pt bold] Industry-Style Performance Reviews:
Poorly performing students will be identified by the following metrics:
[11.0pt bold] Quality of Work , e.g. low individual work scores, negative feedback from
sponsor/TA/instructor
[11.0pt bold] Initiative , e.g. refusing to take on responsibility
[11.0pt bold] Teamwork , e.g. low peer evaluation scores, negative feedback on peer evaluations
[11.0pt bold] Timely Delivery on Commitments , e.g. late submission of work, incomplete work
[11.0pt bold] Effective Communication , e.g. becoming unresponsive, unprofessional
communication
[11.0pt bold] Sponsor/Client Focus , e.g. detracting from value to sponsor/client
Once a poorly performing student has been identified, they will be notified of their standing
and made aware of specific actions which can be taken to improve their performance. The
student will be asked to meet with the instructor and the TA. The agenda of the meeting will
be:
1.  Copy work record (meeting minutes, design diagrams, git commit logs, etc.)
2.  Review of work record
3.  Review of metrics
Quality of Work
Initiative
Teamwork
Timely Delivery on Commitments
Effective Communication
Sponsor/Client Focus
4.  Improvement plan (SMART goals that must be met in order to pass the class)
5.  Sign and date performance review (PR) document
6.  Email copy of signed PR document to prof, TA, and student
The intention of this intervention is to support the student in making improving changes in
their participation and performance.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Assignments will be considered late after their posted deadline, but will be accepted until the
closure date of the assignment. (Note that all recall practices and some assignments must be
completed within a class session and will not be accepted late.
In addition, some assignments, such as status reports, peer evaluations, proposals, etc., are
specific to a particular phase of the course or project development and may have shorter
windows where they will be accepted.)
Late assignments will receive a grade reduction of 10% per day late.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[11.0pt bold] Below is the  planned but tentative  schedule of topics and major projects for the course. All
assignment and project details will be communicated on Canvas.
Table 2. Weekly Schedule
Weeks Course Phases
Major Deliverables
1-2
[11.0pt bold] Introduction, Team Formation, and Project
[11.0pt bold] Exploration
[11.0pt bold] You will learn how to identify and formulate an
engineering problem and how to investigate problem
needs to better inform your proposed solution. You
will also explore elements of good and bad design.
You will practice communicating your problem's
motivation and user needs.
Project proposal (due by
end of Week 2)
3
[11.0pt bold] Project Ideation and Design
[11.0pt bold] You will learn how to use design thinking to create
innovative solutions to your problem and how to
define project success. You will develop user stories
and usage scenarios and learn how to effectively
prototype and test different interface designs. You
will participate in rapid user studies with peers on
initial lo-fi prototypes, identify design moves in
response, and create a final system design. You will
begin to make iterative progress on your final written
report.
Incremental submission
of final report elements
(various, see Canvas
assignments)
4-11
[11.0pt bold] Project Development
[11.0pt bold] You will complete a literature review tailored for
your project that places your work in the context of
existing work and practice communicating your
solution and design. You will also create a project
management plan based on software development
methodologies, begin participating in peer
evaluations within your team, and complete ethics
training.
You will implement your system design following
standard software development methodologies and
using GitHub for version control. You will submit a
new code release and demo your project to the class
every 2 weeks. You will also submit weekly status
updates and hold weekly update meetings. At the end
of this phase, you will have a full working system
implemented and be ready for system evaluation.
You will also continue to make iterative progress on
your final written report.
Finalized development
schedule (due by end of
Week 5)
Incremental submission
of final report elements
(various, see Canvas
assignments)
Fully working system
(due by end of Week 11)
12-13
[11.0pt bold] Project Evaluation
[11.0pt bold] You will thoroughly test your system's functionality
according to your evaluation plan. You will also
conduct a user study and analyze collected data to
evaluate the success of your system. You will
communicate results from these two types of
evaluations in your final report. You will continue to
submit weekly status updates, hold weekly update
meetings, demo your project to the class, and
participate in peer evaluations.
Fully evaluated system
(due by end of Week 13)
14
[11.0pt bold] Project Finalization
You will complete your final report and finish
preparing all final deliverables. You will practice
communicating your problem, solution, and results
to the class. You will submit your last weekly status
update and participate in your last peer evaluation.
Complete draft of final
deliverables (due by end
of Week 14)
15
[11.0pt bold] Project Presentations
You will present your final projects to industry
panelists and participate in exit interviews.
All final deliverables
[11.0pt bold] (due  on last day of class
[11.0pt bold] by 11:59pm )
Final Presentations to
IAP members and exit
interviews.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[11.0pt bold] Communication Policy
We will use Canvas to post assignments, course resources, discussions, and send
[11.0pt bold] announcements.  It is your responsibility to check Canvas and pay attention to class
[11.0pt bold] emails and Canvas announcements.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
This course assumes that all work submitted by students will be generated by the students
themselves. Students should not have another person or entity do the creation, writing, or
revision of any substantive portion of an assignment for them (including software/code)
unless instructed to do so by the instructor, which includes hiring a person or company or
using artificial intelligence tools like ChatGPT or CoPilot to create, write, or revise
assignments. Software projects may use generative artificial intelligence tools within them
(similar to how other software libraries, APIs, and packages are used) as long as students
receive prior instructor approval and properly document its usage, but generative artificial
intelligence tools may not be used to create the software project/code itself. (adapted from
University of Massachusetts Amherst, https://cte.tamu.edu/getmedia/e41693dd-a7d1-4b54-
9118-a0089c5d4b8d/TAMU-CTE_GenAI-SyllabusStatementConsiderations_8_17_23.pdf)
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
[11.0pt bold] Importance of Attendance:  Not attending class sessions harms the other members of
your team and makes it much more difficult for the instructor to assess your
contributions to the team effort. Therefore, attendance, punctuality, and active
participation in class sessions are required. Due to the unfortunate consequences and
[11.0pt bold] undue burden your frequent absences would have on the rest of the team,  more than 5
[11.0pt bold] unexcused absences will result in a letter grade reduction for the course . (Excused
absences do not count toward this total.)
[11.0pt bold] Absence and Tardiness:  Failure to attend a class session or late arrivals (more than 25
minutes late) will be counted as unexcused absences. Lateness or absences can be
excused if there is a valid reason. Illness, job interviews out of town, death in the
family, and conference attendance are examples of valid reasons. To request an
absence be considered as excused, submit documentation to the  Excused Absence
Documentation  assignment on  Canvas . Documentation will not be accepted over
email.
[11.0pt bold] Valid Excuses:  Oversleeping, a term paper due, an exam to cram for, etc., are not
valid reasons. The instructor reserves the right to determine what constitutes a valid
reason on a case-by-case basis.
[11.0pt bold] Proper Planning:  If you know you are going to be late or miss a class, please  let the
[11.0pt bold] instructor and your teammates know,  so that they may plan for your absence and
make the best use of their time.