<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 313 Syllabus
Section 502 (12360)
Introduction to Computer Systems
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MWF
Start Time: 1:50PM
End Time: 2:40PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  HRBB 124
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 11:35AM
End Time: 12:25PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 582
Credit Hours:  4
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Sandeep Kumar
Email:  sandeep.kumar@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 105
Phone:  979-458-6816
Office Hours
TBD
Preferred Contact Method
Email
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Introduction to Computer Systems. (3-2). Credit 4. Introduction to system support
for application programs, both on single node and over network including OS
application interface, inter-process communication, introduction to system and
network programming, and simple computer security concepts; hands-on lab
assignments. Prerequisite: CSCE 221 with a grade of C or better; grade of C or
better in CSCE 312 or concurrent enrollment in CSCE 350 or ECEN 350.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  CSCE 221 with a grade of C or better; grade of C or
better in CSCE 312 or concurrent enrollment in CSCE 350/ECEN 350 or
ECEN 350/CSCE 350.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
By the end of the semester, students will be able to utilize basic operating-system
services and C/C++ system APIs, create multi-threaded solutions, implement proper
synchronization, and build applications with efficient file I/O and memory
management.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
System Programming in Linux
ISBN:  9781718503571
Authors:  Stewart Weiss
Publisher:  No Starch Press
Publication Date:  2025-10-14
This material Is: Recommended
Operating Systems
ISBN:  9781985086593
Authors:  Remzi H. Arpaci-Dusseau, Andrea C. Arpaci-
Dusseau
Publisher:  Createspace Independent Publishing
Platform
Publication Date:  2018-09-01
This material Is: Recommended
Advanced Programming in the UNIX Environment
ISBN:  0321637739
Authors:  W. Richard Stevens and Stephen A. Rago
Edition:  3rd
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Your grade in the class will be based on the following activities spread throughout
the semester.
Labs & Programming Assignments –  50% .
Homeworks –  10%.
[11.0pt bold] In-class graded assignments  –  10%.
Three midterms –  30% . Either no final exam, or final exam in lieu of the third
midterm!
Your letter grade in the class will be based on the following cutoffs where  x  is your
cumulative score.
A: x  ≥  90.
B: 80  ≤  x < 90.
C: 70  ≤  x < 80.
D: 60  ≤  x < 70.
F: x < 60.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late assignments will not be accepted without a reason.
Assignments will usually be due by 11:59 PM on the due date.  To
accommodate last minute submissions, we'll deduct 1% penalty per late
hour on programming assignments . I.e., we'll grade the assignment as if it
was submitted on time, then deduct for late time. In most cases you'll submit
your assignments on Gradescope but if because of some technical hitch we
ask you to mail your assignment to us, you must keep the mail in your
Sent/Outbox folder, so you can later show that you mailed us the assignment
on time. Please discuss unusual circumstances in advance with the TA's when
possible.
Work submitted as makeup work for an excused absence is not considered
late work and is exempted from the late work policy (Student Rule 7).
Email submissions will not be accepted in general. However, you should keep
a copy (in your mail Sent/Outbox folder) of all relevant communication to us
in case of disputes.
If you have difficulty finishing an assignment, contact the instructor/TA before
the deadline.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[12.9pt] § Week 1, Jan 12. First week of class
Labs/Assignments:
Linux environment setup on GCP. Wait for TA instructions. Read lab0 for
details.
GDB.
Reading:
Git from Scratch . We have a site license for LinkedIn learning at TAMU and
you should be able to login using your Tamu email.
Skim through the x86-64 ISA on  Prof. Eddie Kohler's Assembly Page .
Chapter 3  of Dive into Systems.
Class Topics and Slides:
Git from Scratch . We have a site license for LinkedIn learning at TAMU and
you should be able to login using your Tamu email.
Skim through the x86-64 ISA on  Prof. Eddie Kohler's Assembly Page .
Chapter 3  of Dive into Systems.
[12.9pt] § Week 2, Jan 19. MLK holiday on monday.
Labs/Assignments:
GDB continued
Time permitting: Git Overview.
Lab 1 on GDB.
Reading:
Mechanism: Limited Direct Execution —Chapter 6 of OSSTEP.
Class Topics and Slides:
No CSCE313_03.pdf .
CSCE313_02.pdf —Architectural Support for OS.
CSCE313_04.pdf —Introduction to Processes.
[12.9pt] § Week 3, Jan 26. Attendance certification due.
Reading:
Sections 7.1 to 7.6 in APUE.
A fork() in the road . Skim through the paper to get the gist of why the authors
don't like the fork system call.
Class Topics and Slides:
Sections 7.1 to 7.6 in APUE.
A fork() in the road . Skim through the paper to get the gist of why the authors
don't like the fork system call.
[12.9pt] § Week 4, Feb 2.
Labs/Assignments:
x86_64 ISA overview.
Lab exercise 2. This one is  /bin/ls -l | tr a-z A-Z
For fun or profit, redo the assignment using  posix_spawn()  instead of  fork() .
Reading:
Chapter 7  of Dive into Systems.
x86-64 ISA.  Prof. Eddie Kohler's Assembly Page
The x86-64 chapter of the  CS107 Course Reader .
Class Topics and Slides:
Assembly Language on x86-64.
CSCE313_0101.pdf .
[12.9pt] § Week 5, Feb 9.
Labs/Assignments: PA #1. TBD.
Readings: Class Topics and Slides: Sections 5.1, 5.2, 5.3 in  OSSTEP .
Class Topics and Slides:
CSCE313_06.pdf . Process API - I
CSCE313_07.pdf . Process API - II
[12.9pt] § Week 6, Feb 16. Tentative date for midterm-I Feb 18.
Labs/Assignments: Lab 3. User-space thread library.
Reading: Sections 39.1, 39.6 in  OSSTEP .
Class Topics and Slides:
CSCE313_09.pdf . Unix File I/O.
CSCE313_10.pdf . UNIX I/O file descriptors, redirection and standard I/O
[12.9pt] § Week 7, Feb 23.
Labs/Assignments: PA #2
Reading: Sections 40.1, 40.6 in  OSSTEP .
Class Topics and Slides:  CSCE313_11_1.pdf . File Systems.
[12.9pt] § Week 8, Mar 2. Mid-semester grades are due at noon on Mar 2.
Labs/Assignments: Lab 4. Signals.
Reading: Class evaluation at the half-way mark. Signals are described in Chapter 10
of APUE, Pages 313-322. The  sigaction  function is described in APUE pages 349-
354.
Class Topics and Slides:  CSCE313_12.pdf —Signals
[12.9pt] § Week 9, Mar 9. Spring Break.
[12.9pt] § Week 10, Mar 16. Tentative date for midterm-II: Mar 18
Labs/Assignments: Lab 5.
Reading:
OSSTEP-Concurrency: An Introduction .
OSSTEP-Thread API .
Class Topics and Slides:
CSCE313_11_2.pdf —File systems II.
CSCE313_14.pdf —Concurrency and threads
[12.9pt] § Week 11, Mar 23.
Labs/Assignments:
Lab 6. Strace.
PA #3. Threadpools?
Written Homework.
Reading:
Condition Variables
Semaphores
Class Topics and Slides:
CSCE313_15.pdf —Synchronization
CSCE313_16.pdf —Semaphores
[12.9pt] § Week 12, Mar 30. Fri Apr 3 is Reading day.
Class Topics and Slides:  CSCE313_18.pdf —Networking.
[12.9pt] § Week 13, Apr 6.
Reading:
Network IPC: Sockets. This is Sections 16.1-16.4 of APUE.
Beej's Guide to Network Programming —Sections 3.3, 5, 9.
Class Topics and Slides:
CSCE313_19.pdf —Routers, Switches, Packets, and Frames
CSCE313_20.pdf —Network Programming Socket API
[12.9pt] § Week 14, Apr 13.
Class Topics and Slides:
CSCE313_21.pdf —Introduction to computer security
CSCE313_22.pdf —Network security: the data link layer
[12.9pt] § Week 15, Apr 20.
Class Topics and Slides: TBD
[12.9pt] § Week 16, Apr 27. Tue Apr 28 last day of classes.
Class Topics and Slides: TBD
[16.0pt] AI Statement
I'm fine if you use tools such as ChatGPT, Gemini, Claude etc. to understand the
material in the class, and even to help with your homeworks. But  blind copying
and pasting from these tools is not permitted . You must eventually write the
solution yourself, and code your labs and programming assignments yourself. Also
remember that you'll have to take all exams without these tools, and a weaker
understanding resulting from constant use of these tools will reflect in your exam
performance.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
Attendance during lectures is not mandatory . If you are receiving federal
financial assistance, the university uses your “participation” as a measure of meeting
the requirements of the assistance. Physical attendance is one criterion to
determine participation. You should be ok if you're turning in labs and
programming assignments, taking quizzes and exams etc. However, I will take
attendance as an indication of your “participation” and report it to the university
when asked. I may take pictures of the classroom to verify attendance.