<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 320 Syllabus
Section 500 (54734)
Principles of Data Science
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 3:55PM
End Time: 5:10PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 350
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Ricardo Gutierrez-Osuna
Email:  rgutier@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 309
Phone:  979-845-2942
Office Hours
By appointment
Preferred Contact Method
csce-320-rgo@tamu.edu
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Principles of Data Science. (3-0). Credit 3. Theoretical foundations, algorithms and
methods of deriving valuable insights from data; includes foundations in managing
and analyzing data at scale, e.g. big data; data mining techniques and algorithms;
exploratory data analysis; statistical methods and models; data visualization.
Prerequisites: STAT 211 or ECEN 303; STAT 212 or CSCE 222; MATH 304. Cross-
listed with STAT 335.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  STAT 211 or ECEN 303; STAT 212 or
CSCE 222/ECEN 222; MATH 304. Cross Listing: STAT 335/CSCE 320.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
[12.0pt] Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
[12.0pt] Collect data from the web, manipulate and process large datasets, and
[12.0pt] conduct exploratory data analysis.
[12.0pt] Apply and interpret basic exploratory statistical techniques including
[12.0pt] cluster analysis and dimensionality reduction.
[12.0pt] Apply and interpret linear models to a variety of dataset types.
[12.0pt] Define and explain the key concepts and models relevant to data
[12.0pt] science, including data cleaning and integration, data-intensive
[12.0pt] distributed computing, data mining algorithms, and data visualization.
[12.0pt] Design, implement, and evaluate the core algorithms underlying an
[12.0pt] end-to-end data science workflow, including the experimental design,
[12.0pt] data collection, mining, analysis, and presentation of information
[12.0pt] derived from large datasets.
[12.0pt] Apply "best practices" in data science, including facility with modern
[12.0pt] tools.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
An Introduction to Statistical Learning: with Applications in Python
Subtitle:  (Springer Texts in Statistics)
ISBN:  978-3031387470
Authors:  Gareth James, Daniela Witten, Trevor Hastie, Robert Tibshirani and
Jonathan Taylor
Publisher:  Springer
Publication Date:  June 30, 2023
Edition:  2nd
URL for Resource:  https://www.statlearning.com/
[16.0pt] Additional Instructional Materials
This Material is: Optional
Data Science from Scratch
Subtitle:  First Principles with Python
ISBN:  978-1492041139
Authors:  Joel Grus
Publisher:  O'Reilly Media
Publication Date:  June 11, 2019
Edition:  2nd
This Material is: Optional
Doing Data Science
Subtitle:  Straight Talk from the Frontline
ISBN:  978-1449358655
Authors:  Cathy O'Neil and Rachel Schutt
Publisher:  O'Reilly Media
Publication Date:  December 3, 2013
Edition:  1st
This Material is: Optional
Numsense! Data Science for the Layman
Subtitle:  No Math Added
ISBN:  978-9811127007
Authors:  Annalyn Ng and Kenneth Soo
Publisher:  N/A
Publication Date:  March 24, 2017
Edition:  1st
This Material is: Optional
Introduction to Machine Learning with Python
Subtitle:  A Guide for Data Scientists
ISBN:  978-1449369415
Authors:  Andreas C. Müller and Sarah Guido
Publisher:  O'Reilly Media
Publication Date:  November 15, 2016
Edition:  1st
This Material is: Optional
Learning From Data
ISBN:  978-1600490064
Authors:  Yaser S. Abu-Mostafa and Malik Magdon-Ismail and Hsuan-Tien Lin
Publisher:  AMLBook
Publication Date:  January 1, 2012
Edition:  January 1, 2012
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[12.0pt] Your final grade will be based on completion of the following requirements,
[12.0pt] following the grading scale shown in Table 1.
[12.0pt bold] 1.  Weekly in-class quizzes.  Quiz will be available at the start of the first
[12.0pt bold] class of each week. Your overall quiz grade ( QG ) will be the statistical
[12.0pt] mean of the top 75% of the individual quiz grades, i.e., the lowest 25%
[12.0pt] of your quiz grades do not count, regardless of whether you completed
[12.0pt] them or not. This gives you a bit of flexibility: a few low quiz grades may
[12.0pt] not affect your grade, and you may miss a few unexcused quizzes (e.g.,
[12.0pt] you arrived late to class, your battery died, connection issues).
[12.0pt] Missed quizzes with an approved excused absence (see  Excused
[12.0pt] absences ) will not be counted towards the total. For example, if
[12.0pt] we have 17 quizzes during the semester, and you had 3 approved
[12.0pt] excused absences (e.g., documented illness), your grade will be
[12.0pt] based on the remaining 14 quizzes following the procedure
[12.0pt] discussed above.
[12.0pt] Missed quizzes without an approved excused absence (see
[12.0pt] Excused   absences ) will be graded as a zero and will be counted
[12.0pt] towards the total.
[12.0pt] Occasionally, you will be asked to complete a pop quiz about
[12.0pt] contents covered in class since the previous quiz. This
[12.0pt] encourages students to take notes during the lecture, pay
[12.0pt] attention and participate in discussions. Pop quizzes will be
[12.0pt] treated as regular weekly quizzes when computing the overall
[12.0pt] quiz grade.
[12.0pt] Please bring your Aggie ID card to take quizzes or participate on
[12.0pt] any class activity. We do not accept any other form of
[12.0pt] identification.
[12.0pt bold] 2.  Homework assignments.  There will be 4 homework assignments
[12.0pt] throughout the semester, roughly every 2-3 weeks. Homework
[12.0pt] assignments must be completed individually. To give you some degree
[12.0pt bold] of fault tolerance, your overall homework grade ( HG ) will be the
[12.0pt] weighted average of the four grades: 40% of the highest grade, 30% of
[12.0pt] the second highest grade, 20% of the third highest grade and 10% of
[12.0pt] the lowest grade. For example, if you score 50 on HW1, 90 on HW2, 70
[12.0pt] on HW3 and 100 on HW4, your homework grade is 86 (0.1 50 + 0.3 90
[12.0pt] + 0.2 70 + 0.4 100), which is higher than the unweighted mean of 77.5.
[12.0pt] Late submissions: Submissions received within 24 hours after the
[12.0pt] Canvas deadline will receive an automatic penalty of 10 points.
[12.0pt] Submissions received after this period will not be considered and
[12.0pt] will be graded as a zero.
[12.0pt] Code: homework submissions must include (1) a well-written
[12.0pt] report following the submission guidelines in the assignment, and
[12.0pt] (2) code that is ready to be executed. Submissions without code
[12.0pt] or without the report will be graded as a zero. If your code does
[12.0pt] not run (for whatever reason), you will receive an automatic
[12.0pt] penalty of 10 points but will have one opportunity to make minor
[12.0pt] corrections to the code by requesting an appointment with the TA.
[12.0pt] Review period: Once homework grades are posted on Canvas,
[12.0pt] students have 24 hours to request a review of the grades via the
[12.0pt] official course email address, with a clear explanation of the
[12.0pt] request (i.e., no fishing, please). Grade revisions will NOT be
[12.0pt] considered after this period.
[12.0pt bold] 3.  Classroom etiquette.  Classroom etiquette will follow the guidelines of
[12.0pt] Library Use & Conduct , including: no talking, no cell phone use, and
[12.0pt] silencing of all electronic devices. Strictly prohibited is the use of (1) cell
[12.0pt] phones, unless there is an emergency, and (2) audio devices (e.g., ear
[12.0pt] buds, headphones), unless there are accommodation requests (e.g.,
[12.0pt] hearing aids). Personal computers (e.g., laptops, tablets) should always
[12.0pt] remain closed unless when used for class activities (e.g., taking notes,
[12.0pt bold] quizzes).  Each individual violation of classroom etiquette   will result
[12.0pt bold] in a  1-point  Etiquette Penalty (EP)   on the FINAL course grade .
[12.0pt bold] Your total points ( TP ) will be the weighted average of  QG  and  HG , weighted
[12.0pt] in favor of the lowest of the two grades, minus penalty points due to violations
[12.0pt] of classroom etiquette:
Equation 1
[12.0pt] TP=0.60×min(QC,HG)+0.40 ×max(QC,HG)-sum(EP)
[12.0pt bold] For example, a student receives a quiz grade of QG=60    and a homework
[12.0pt] grade
[12.0pt] of
[12.0pt] HG=100
[12.0pt] and
[12.0pt] three
[12.0pt] EPs.
[12.0pt] Thus,
[12.0pt] their
[12.0pt] total
[12.0pt] points    TP=0.60×min⁡(60,100)+0.40×max⁡(60,100)-3=0.60×60+0.40×100-3=73
[12.0pt bold] or a C letter grade according to  Table 1  below.
[12.0pt] Table 1. Grading scale. Total
[12.0pt] points are calculated as shown
[12.0pt] in eq. (1)
[12.0pt bold] Total points
[12.0pt bold] Letter grade
[12.0pt] 90
[12.0pt] A
[12.0pt] 80
[12.0pt] B
[12.0pt] 70
[12.0pt] C
[12.0pt] 60
[12.0pt] D
[12.0pt] Otherwise
[12.0pt] F
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[12.0pt] Please refer to late submission policy under Homework assignments above.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[12.0pt] A tentative schedule for the course, including assignments and due dates for
[12.0pt] submission of course materials is available as a  spreadsheet . Please refer to
[12.0pt] it regularly as it may change during the semester based on eventualities.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
[12.0pt] If you would like to request an excused absence, please follow these steps:
[12.0pt] 1. Go to  Student Rule 7  to determine if your situation is covered, then
[12.0pt] 2. Send an email to  csce-320-rgo@tamu.edu  with:
[12.0pt] A description of your situation, and
[12.0pt] Which provision within  Student Rule 7  applies
[12.0pt] Supporting documentation (doctor's note, cover letter, etc.)
[12.0pt] 3. Your request will be reviewed, and you will be notified of its
[12.0pt] approval/rejection via email
[12.0pt bold] Timeline for submitting excused absences : Per  Student Rule 7 , you must
[12.0pt] make the request prior to the day of absence. If this is not possible, you must
[12.0pt] provide notification by the end of the second business day after the last date
[12.0pt] of the absence, including an explanation of why advance notice could not be
[12.0pt] sent. Requests for excused absences that do not meet these guidelines will
[12.0pt] not be considered.
[12.0pt bold] PLAGLIARISM AND FABRICATION
[12.0pt] Homework reports containing plagiarized content (including self-plagiarism or
[12.0pt] AI-generated) will be submitted to the Aggie Honors Office, with the
[12.0pt bold] recommendation that the student receives an  F*  for the course. Please
[12.0pt] review the TAMU guidelines for  Academic Integrity and Plagiarism .
[12.0pt] Occasionally, we find evidence of plagiarism after the homework reports have
[12.0pt] been graded. For example, a prior report may be flagged when a new
[12.0pt] detector for AI-generated materials becomes available. For these reasons,
[12.0pt] you should treat your homework grades as provisional. Any prior submission
[12.0pt] that is later found to constitute a violation will be submitted to the Aggie
[12.0pt] Honors Office, with the same recommendation that the student receives an
[12.0pt bold] F* .
[12.0pt] Any information (e.g., a doctor’s note for an excused absences) that is found
[12.0pt] to have been fabricated, falsified and/or misused will be submitted to the
[12.0pt bold] Aggie Honors Office with the recommendation the student receives an  F*  for
[12.0pt] the course.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[12.0pt] The use of AI is strictly prohibited.  Please refer to Additional Course
[12.0pt] Information above.