<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 441 Syllabus
Section 550 (55317)
Computer Graphics
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 11:30AM
End Time: 12:20PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  PMEC 148
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: R
Start Time: 5:30PM
End Time: 6:20PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  PMEC 148
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Alpaslan Duysak
Email:  aduysak03@tamu.edu
Office Location:  SAGC 703
Phone:  (409) 740- 5513
Office Hours
3:00 PM-4:00 PM, Wednesday
Preferred Contact Method
Email
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Computer Graphics. (3-0). Credit 3. Principles of interactive computer graphics; 2-D
and 3-D rendering pipelines, including geometric object and view transformations,
projections, hidden surface removal, and rasterization; lighting models for local and
global illumination; hierarchical models of 3-D objects; systems and libraries
supporting display and user interaction. Prerequisite: CSCE 221; junior or senior
classification or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
[14.0pt bold] Goals:
[12.0pt] Become familiar with basic 2D rendering concepts and algorithms such as line
[12.0pt] drawing, line and polygon clipping, polygon filling, and antialiasing.
[12.0pt] Understand 3D rendering techniques, including hierarchical model structures,
[12.0pt] geometric transformations, projections, and hidden surface removal.
[12.0pt] Understand basic lighting and shading techniques.
[12.0pt] Understand the basics of color models as they relate to computer graphics.
[12.0pt] Become familiar with basic aspects of geometric and solid modeling.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  CSCE 221; junior or senior classification or approval
of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
[12.0pt] Understand the graphics pipeline and make use of a basic implementation of
[12.0pt] the pipeline in modern hardware (and graphics libraries)
[12.0pt] Apply coordinate transforms and affine transformations, and understand the
[12.0pt] application of such transforms using a vertex shader
[12.0pt] Apply basic geometric computations involving points, lines, planes, and
[12.0pt] triangles related to spatial queries
[12.0pt] Develop basic data structures to represent a mesh, including applying
[12.0pt] transforms and necessary data for shading
[12.0pt] Implement basic rasterization methods (algorithm, stage in the graphics
[12.0pt] pipeline, and relationship to fragment shaders)
[12.0pt] Make use of hierarchical animation
[12.0pt] Create local shading models (Phong, etc.)
[12.0pt] Apply basic texture mapping
[12.0pt] Implement basic ray tracing
[12.0pt] Honors: implement an advanced ray tracing feature
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Fundamentals of Computer Graphics
ISBN:  0367505037
Authors:  Steve Marschner, Peter Shirley
Publisher:  A K Peters/CRC Press
Publication Date:  September 30, 2021
Edition:  4th Edition
Notes:
[12.0pt] NOT REQUIRED
This material Is: Optional
The OpenGL® Programming Guide
Authors:  John Kessenich, Graham Sellers, and Dave Shreiner
Edition:  9th Edition
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[12.0pt] This class will use a standard A, B, C, etc. scale for final grades; depending on the
[12.0pt] distribution, a curve may be applied. The instructor reserves the right to raise grades
[12.0pt] near a borderline to the next highest letter, based largely on the student’s perceived
[12.0pt] effort and participation .
Table 1. Course Grading Breakdown and Weight Distribution
[12.0pt bold] Description
[12.0pt bold] Percentage
[12.0pt bold] Category
[12.0pt] Programming Assignments (5+2)
[12.0pt] Lab Assignments (7)
[12.0pt] 63%
[12.0pt] 7%
[12.0pt] 70% Assignments
[12.0pt] Exam
[12.0pt] 10%
[12.0pt] 30% Exams
[12.0pt] Final Exam
[12.0pt] 20%
Table 2. Final Letter Grade Scale
[11.0pt bold] A
[11.0pt bold] B
[11.0pt bold] C
[11.0pt bold] D
[11.0pt bold] F
[12.0pt] 90 - 100%
[12.0pt] 80 - 89%
[12.0pt] 70 - 79%
[12.0pt] 60 - 69%
[12.0pt] < 60%
[12.0pt bold] Assignments:
[12.0pt bold] Programming Assignments  comprise the single largest portion of the course
[12.0pt] grade. There will be 5+2 programming assignments. These will require
[12.0pt] programming a solution to the given prompt and submitting your code.
[12.0pt bold] Lab Assignments  There will be seven lab assignments designed to help you with
[12.0pt] the more complex tasks.
[12.0pt bold] Exams:
[12.0pt bold] One regular  Exam  and one  Final Exam  represent the summative portion of the
[12.0pt] course.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
[12.0pt bold] Late Submissions:
If an assignment accepts late work, submissions received after the deadline will be
subject to a late penalty, which will be computed based on the number of days late. The
penalty will be 15% every day, for up to 4 days. After 4 days, late work will receive no
credit.
Additionally, you have a pool of 10 late days that you can use to extend an assignment
without penalty (max. 3 days per late submission). While the assignments are organized
so that you have plenty of time to complete them, late days give you extra flexibility to
handle unforeseen circumstances according to your own judgment.
To use a late day from your pool, you need to notify the TA. Be sure to specify the
affected assignment.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Table 3. Weekly Schedule
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Topic
1
[12.0pt] Introduction, OpenGL
[12.0pt] HW 1
[12.0pt] LAB 1
2
[12.0pt] Linear Algebra, Rendering Overview
3
[12.0pt] 2D-3D Transformations
[12.0pt] HW 2
[12.0pt] LAB 2
4
[12.0pt] 2D-3D Transformations, Viewing Transformations, Clipping
5
[12.0pt] Viewing Transformations, Clipping
6
[12.0pt] Rasterizing Lines and Triangles
[12.0pt] HW 3
[12.0pt] LAB 3
7
[12.0pt] Antialiasing
8
[12.0pt] Color
9
[12.0pt] Shading and Texture Mapping
[12.0pt bold] EXAM
[12.0pt] HW 4
[12.0pt] LAB 4
10
[12.0pt] Shading and Texture Mapping
11
[12.0pt] Shadows
[12.0pt] HW 5
[12.0pt] LAB 5
[11.0pt bold] Week
[11.0pt bold] Topic
12
[12.0pt] Ray Tracing
13
[12.0pt] Ray Tracing Acceleration
[12.0pt] HW 6 (2 parts)
[12.0pt] LAB 6 (2 parts)
14
[12.0pt] Geometry
15
[12.0pt] Curves and Surfaces
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
Use Canvas to get access to the lecture notes, quizzes, tests, and assignments, and check your
grades regularly during the semester.
Individual programming MUST be done on your own. You must write assignments in your own
words. Plagiarism will not be tolerated, and violations will be reported to the Honor Council.
To help identify possible instances of plagiarism, we may use automated systems for
plagiarism detection. Students found to have engaged in plagiarism will be referred to the
Aggie Honor System.
Collaboration is important for facilitating learning, and your peers can be a great resource. So,
you are encouraged to discuss problems and general approaches with each other (but not
actual solutions). Regardless, unless stated otherwise, all assignments must be done on your
own. It is okay to share general approaches, directions, and so on. You may not look at
someone else’s code (online or in person). If you have an issue that needs clarification,
contact an instructor or TA. Additional overriding instructions and grading policies on
permitted collaboration may be provided in the project documents
[16.0pt] AI Statement
The use of artificial intelligence (AI) tools, including code-generation and language-model
systems, is permitted in this course only when explicitly allowed by the instructor. Students
are responsible for ensuring that all submitted work reflects their own understanding and
complies with Texas A&M University’s academic integrity standards. Unless otherwise stated,
AI tools may not be used to generate complete solutions or replace independent reasoning.
Any authorized use of AI must be clearly disclosed, and students remain fully accountable for
the correctness, originality, and integrity of their work.