<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 206 Syllabus
Section 500 (41800)
Structured Programming in C
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MWF
Start Time: 11:30AM
End Time: 12:20PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 590
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 10:20AM
End Time: 11:10AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 590
Credit Hours:  4
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Zbigniew Leyk
Email:  zleyk@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 117
Phone:  979-845-4908
Office Hours
TBA on Canvas
Preferred Contact Method
email
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
(COSC 1420) Structured Programming in C. (3-2). Credit 4. Basic concepts,
nomenclature and historical perspective of computers and computing; internal
representation of data; software design principles and practice; structured and
object-oriented programming in C; use of terminals, operation of editors and
executions of student-written programs.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Write C programs using a text editor to create, modify, and manage source
files
Apply fundamental programming constructs such as variables, control flow,
and functions
Manipulate data effectively using arrays and strings to solve computational
problems
Utilize pointers and dynamic memory allocation to manage memory and
build flexible data structures
Design and implement structures and perform file I/O operations for
organizing and persisting data
Develop modular, reusable, and maintainable code through effective
program decomposition
Demonstrate strong programming practices by writing readable,
well ‑ documented, and logically structured C code
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Beej's Guide to C Programming
Authors:  Brian “Beej Jorgensen” Hall
Publication Date:  December 4, 2025
URL for Resource:  https://beej.us/guide/bgc/html/split/
Notes:
Chapters 1-15
This material Is: Recommended
Modern C
ISBN:  9781633437777
Authors:  Jens Gustedt
Publisher:  Manning
Publication Date:  2025
URL for Resource:  https://inria.hal.science/hal-02383654v2/document
Notes:
Free download
This material Is: Optional
LearnC.org
URL for Resource:  https://learn-c.org/
Notes:
Free interactive C tutorial
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Grading Scale
Score
Grade
Score
Grade
89.5 -
100
A
79.5 -
89.4
B
69.5 -
79.4
C
59.5 -
69.4
D
0 - 59.4
F
Grading Weights
Component
Weight
Lab Activities
25%
Readings
10%
Class Activities
25%
Midterm Exam 1
12%
Midterm Exam 2
13%
Final Exam
15%
Lab Attendance
(bonus)
1%
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Make-up exams and quizzes will only be given with documented University-
approved excuses, see  University Regulations . The student  Rule 07  explains
policies and excused absences.
A lab project assignment will be accepted up to 1 day late with a 5% penalty.
Once grades are posted or solutions have been discussed the assignments
will not be accepted.
Please discuss unusual circumstances in advance with the instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Course Schedule
Module   Week/Day
Topic
Readings
Posted
Labs
01
Jan 12 - 16
Syllabus Review
Introduction, Overview of C
Lab 0
02
Jan 19 - 23
Data Types, Variables, Operators
A1
Lab 1
Jan 19
MKL Day (no classes)
03
Jan 26 - 30
Functions, Scope and Structured
Programming
A2
Lab 2
04
Feb 02 - 06   Conditionals (if, switch)
Conditional Logic
A3
Lab 3
05
Feb 09 - 13   Control Structures (loops)
A4
Lab 4
06
Feb 16 - 20   Structures, Strings and Arrays
A5
Lab 5
07
Feb 23 - 27   Arrays
Midterm Exam Review
Lab 6
Feb 25
Midterm Exam 1
08
Mar 02 - 06   Arrays and Enums
Lab 7
Mar 02
Midterm Grades
Mar 09 - 13   Spring Break (no classes)
09
Mar 16 - 20   Pointers and Memory Addressing
A6
Lab 8
10
Mar 23 - 27   Dynamic Memory Allocation
A7
Lab 9
11
Mar 30 -
Apr 03
Midterm Exam Review
A8
Lab 10
Apr 01
Midterm Exam 2
Apr 03
Reading Day (no classes)
12
Apr 06 - 10   File I/O
A9
Lab 11
13
Apr 13 - 17   Singly Linked Lists
A10
Lab 12
Apr 14
Q-Drop Deadline
14
Apr 20 - 24   Recursion, Sorting
Lab 13
15
Apr 27
Advanced Topics (Intro to C++)
Lab 14
Module   Week/Day
Topic
Readings
Posted
Labs
Apr 28
Redefined Day (Friday classes)
Last Day of Classes
Final Exam Review
Apr 29
Reading Day (no classes)
May 05
Final Exam 10:30 am - 12:30 pm
May 11
Final Grades
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
All programming assignments should be implemented in C , compiled
and run on a computer (preferably using Linux), and transferred to
Gradescope for grading.
Quizzes are over material covered during the lectures and assigned reading
from the textbook.
The Instructor and/or TAs can request oral exam to check student’s
knowledge over material covered by exams, readings or lab assignments.
The students lab attendance is required and will be taken on regular basis
during the lab activities.
The lecture attendance will be taken by pop quizzes or other activities. The
students are responsible to learn all material covered in class, and read the
assigned text from the textbook.
Grades for all the assignments will be released on Gradescope and gradually
posted on Canvas.
Your final grade will be determined based on exams, programming lab
assignments, class activities, and readings.
A student can request regrading of any graded material if the student
believes that the points assigned are inconsistent with the quality and merits
of the submitted work. To request regrading, the student needs to follow the
guidelines below:
Regrade requests must be submitted to the instructor  within one
week  after the graded item is returned to the student. After this time
limit, no regrade requests will be honored.
Regrade requests must be submitted electronically, with reasonable
justification and documentation.
All lab assignments must be submitted on Gradescope
Timed assignments must be submitted within the allocated time.
Email submissions are not accepted.
If you have difficulties finishing an assignment, contact the instructor
before the deadline.
Assigned readings must be accessed and completed in Perusall.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
This course assumes that all work submitted by students will be generated by the
students themselves, although discussion with TAs, PTs and Instructor is allowed.
Students should not have another person/entity do the writing of any portion of an
assignment for them, which includes hiring a person or a company to write
assignments and/or using artificial intelligence tools like ChatGPT or
OpenAI. ( Adapted from University of Massachusetts Amherst)