<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] ISEN 637 Syllabus
Section 600 (59851)
Stochastic Dynamic Programming
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 12:45PM
End Time: 2:00PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 261
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Alfredo Garcia
Email:  alfredo.garcia@tamu.edu
Office Location:  ETB 4072
Phone:  19794582368
Office Hours
Wed 11-12:30
Preferred Contact Method
email
Biography
agarcia.engr.tamu.edu
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Stochastic Dynamic Programming. (3-0). Credit 3. Methodologies for stage-wise
stochastic-decision processes; includes finite-horizon models, infinite-horizon
discounted total cost models, and average cost models; applications of methods to
various situations. Prerequisites: ISEN 609 and ISEN 622, or approval of the
instructor.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
This course introduces analytical and numerical tools for solving stochastic and
deterministic dynamic optimization problems in discrete time. The course is
centered around a Markov decision process (MDP) formulation of stochastic
dynamic optimization. Bellman’s equation and properties of the value function and
of the optimal policy function are discussed for finite and infinite horizon problems.
The course closes with a survey of reinforcement learning methods such as Q-
Learning, policy gradient and actor-critic.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  ISEN 609 and ISEN 622, or approval of the instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Ability to formulate and analyze stochastic dynamic optimization problems.
Ability to use of numerical and/or statistical techniques to identify optimal
solutions.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Lecture Notes
ISBN:  N/A
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Homework/Exercises (40%)
1 Mid-term Exam (25%)
Final Project (35%)
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
No late work is accepted.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Week       Topic
1. Controlling a Markov Process. Principle of Optimality. Backward Recursion.
2. Examples: Inventory Control, Renewable Resource Exploitation
3. Linear Quadratic Control: Ricatti Equations.
4. Value Iteration.
5. Infinite Horizon Dynamic Programming. Policy Iteration. Euler's Equation.
6. Midterm
7. Reinforcement Learning. Temporal Difference Learning.
8. Regularized MDPs, Soft Q-Learning.
9. Policy Gradients.
10.  Actor-Critic methods
11. Inverse Reinforcement Learning.
12. Application of RL to LLM training.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
N/A
[16.0pt] AI Statement
AI tools are accepted. Specific policies will vary depending upon assignment.