<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 420 Syllabus
Section 550 (51251)
Artificial Intelligence
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 3:00PM
End Time: 4:15PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  CLB 215
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Unal Goktas
Email:  ugoktas@tamu.edu
Office Location:  ECRB 309E (Galveston Campus)
Phone:  409-740-5515
Office Hours
[12.0pt] link to office hours page
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Artificial Intelligence. (3-0). Credit 3. Fundamental concepts and techniques of
intelligent systems; representation and interpretation of knowledge on a computer;
search strategies and control; active research areas and applications such as
notational systems, natural language understanding, vision systems, planning
algorithms, intelligent agents and expert systems. Prerequisite: CSCE 411 or
approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  CSCE 411 or approval of instructor.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Design and implement intelligent search methods for building complex
problem-solving programs.
formulate computational problems as search tasks
describe how various search algorithms work and explain differences in
their space- and time-complexity
design heuristics to improve efficiency of search
Use knowledge representation methods for adding knowledge-based
reasoning in programs.
encode rules and information in propositional and first-order logic
implement inference algorithms to extract deductions from a
knowledge base
represent and reason about uncertainty using Bayesian probability
Implement intelligent decision-making methods in a program
generate symbolic plans to achieve goals autonomously using planning
algorithms
use utility theory to make decisions for intelligent agents
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach
ISBN:  9780137505135
Authors:  S. Russell and P. Norvig
Publisher:  Pearson
Publication Date:  2021
Edition:  4th
Grading Criteria
Grading Criteria
Assignments
30%
Exam
20%
Readings/In-Class/At-Home
Activities
15%
Quizzes
15%
Project
20%
Optional Readings/Videos
5%
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Grading Scale
Grading Scale
90–100
A
80–89.9
B
70–79.9
C
60–69.9
D
0–59.9
F
Your final grade will be determined based on assignments, exam, reading/in-
class/at-home activities, quizzes, and project.
Specific grading practices will be announced when assignments are given
through assignment descriptions and assignment rubrics. When a rubric is
given, the assignment must meet Minimum Viable Solution requirements
before being assessed by the rubric.
All grade appeals must be made no later than one week after the grade
is posted.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Make-up exams and quizzes will only be given with documented University-
approved excuses, see  University Regulations . The  Student Rule 7  explains
policies and excused absences. Please discuss unusual circumstances in
advance with the instructor.
Assignments turned in after the posted deadline will have a penalty applied of
5% per day late .
For team assignments, the late penalty affects the grade for the entire team.
If the assignment is individual, the late penalty only affects the grade for that
team member.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
Below is the planned but tentative schedule of topics and major projects for the
course. All assignment and project details will be communicated on Canvas.
Course Schedule
Course Schedule
Week
Lecture Topics
1
Introduction. Overview of AI
2
Uninformed Search Problems. Depth-First Search. Breadth-First
Search.
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day: January 19, 2026 (No Classes)
3
Informed Search Problems. Greedy Best-First Search. A* Search.
Adversarial Search. Minimax. Alpha-Beta Pruning
4
Adversarial Search. Minimax. Alpha-Beta Pruning
Course Schedule
5
Knowledge Representation. Propositional Logic. Entailment.
Inference. Model Checking. Resolution.
6
First Order Logic.
7
Uncertainty. Probability. Conditional Probability. Random Variables.
Independence. Bayes’ Rule. Joint Probability. Bayesian Networks.
Sampling. Markov Models. Hidden Markov Models.
8
Optimization: Local Search. Hill Climbing. Simulated Annealing.
Linear Programming. Constraint Satisfaction. Backtracking Search.
9
Spring Break: March 9 - 13, 2026
10
Supervised Learning. Nearest-Neighbor Classification. Perceptron
Learning. Support Vector Machines. Regression. Loss Functions.
Overfitting. Regularization.
11
Reinforcement Learning. Markov Decision Processes. Q-Learning.
Unsupervised Learning. k-means Clustering.
Project Proposals Due: March 23, 2026
12
Artificial Neural Networks. Activation Functions. Gradient Descent.
Backpropagation. Overfitting. TensorFlow. Image Convolution.
Convolutional Neural Networks. Recurrent Neural Networks.
Exam: March, 30, 2026
Reading Day (No Classes): April 3, 2026
13
Language Models. Syntax. Semantics. Context-Free Grammar. n-
grams. Bag-of-Words Model.
14
Naive Bayes. Word Representation. Attention. Transformers.
Q-Drop Deadline: April 14, 2026
15
AI and Ethics, Course Wrap-Up
Last Day of Classes: April 28, 2026
Redefined Day (Students Attend Friday Classes): April 28, 2026
Reading Day (No Classes): April 29, 2026
Course Schedule
Finals
Project Final Presentations: May 4, 2026, Monday, 10:30 AM-
12:30 PM
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
Graded Attendance
The lecture attendance will be taken by pop quizzes. The students are
responsible to learn all material covered in class, reading the assigned
material, and do assignments.
Notes about graded materials
All homework assignments will be announced in class and posted on
Canvas.  See the link to the course calendar on Canvas for deadlines.
Programming assignments  should be implemented in Python  and
submitted to  Gradescope  for grading.
The code for course project and activities will be submitted via their TAMU-
associated accounts on  GitHub.com . Students will have to create a private
repository for this class, and then share that with the instructor and TA by
making them collaborators. The date and time students turn in each project
will be determined by the timestamp of their commits on their files. It is the
student's responsibility to learn how to use  Git  well enough to commit their
code (along with reports and other materials to required turn in) and push it
to the Github server by each deadline.
Quizzes are over material covered during the lectures and assigned reading
from the textbook.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
This course assumes that all work submitted by students will be generated by the
students themselves, although discussion with TAs and Instructor is allowed.
Students should not have another person/entity do the writing of any portion of an
assignment for them, which includes hiring a person or a company to write
assignments and/or using artificial intelligence tools like ChatGPT. ( Adapted from
University of Massachusetts Amherst )
[12.9pt] Permitted Uses of AI
Certain assignments will direct you to use AI tools for specific tasks. Follow all
instructions for these assignments precisely, including documentation
requirements.
AI may be used to assist with limited, well-defined tasks, but may not be used to
design your entire project or to complete assignments whose primary learning
outcomes involve your own design and implementation.
Direct use of AI to generate complete solutions for programming assignments,
project designs, or other major tasks is prohibited unless explicitly stated otherwise
in the assignment instructions.
[12.9pt] AI and Academic Integrity Requirements
For any usage of AI in any part of your work—including explicit assignment
directions—refer to the following points in order to maintain academic integrity:
Clearly cite  any AI-generated content by listing each tool, document
prompts, and output, as well as explaining how the content was created.
Properly attribute  AI-generated material, since failure to do so is considered
academic misconduct and will be reported to the  Aggie Honor System Office .