<!-- body_font:10.5pt -->
[15.6pt] ISEN 665 Syllabus
Section 700 (59602)
Management of Engineering Systems
Spring 2026 - College Station
[15.6pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days:
Start Time: N/A
End Time: N/A
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ONLINE ONLINE
Credit Hours:  3
[15.6pt] Instructor Details
Michael Graul, PhD PE
Email:  mgraul@tamu.edu
Office Location:  ETB 4017; ZACH 403D
Phone:  979-575-7162
Office Hours
Via zoom:  F 4-5p; SU 4-5p
Link:   https://tamu.zoom.us/j/93939680794?
pwd=3ZRBzQraKRM3AgzpzYf0Qi2s2EpjMu.1
Preferred Contact Method
mgraul@tamu.edu
[15.6pt] Catalog Description
Management of Engineering Systems. (3-0). Credit 3. Theory and practice of
leadership and management in engineering organizations; focus on both “hard” skills
(systems engineering process, project management, planning, forecasting and
financial analysis) and “soft” skills (leadership styles, motivation, teamwork, managing
creative people, navigating informal networks); science and technology policy,
economic implications of engineering and technology. Prerequisite: Graduate
classification. Cross-listed with SYEN 645.
[15.6pt] Additional Course Details
[10.7pt bold] NB: Lecture simulcast for section 700:   https://tamu.zoom.us/j/99872586429?
pwd=5avC5LQThxhMfHqvL4k8GUEZ7Blckl.1
ISEN 665 prepares the engineer for the effective management of complex system efforts. The
scope is the system lifecycle – the system itself may be technologically based or socio-technical in
nature. A system is a set of elements so arranged as to produce (desired) functions and
behaviors. Production systems, as a class of systems, represent one of the more complex system
types to manage effectively due to its socio-technical nature and the interdependencies,
uncertainties, and often conflicting goals of its elements. Depending on the magnitude of the
system being managed – effective management may necessitate the need to apportion the
system into logical groupings to simplify the application of the core management functions
(planning, organizing, controlling). The course covers this apportionment of a system into
projects, thrust areas, and programs in order to facilitate its management. Additionally, the
socio-technical nature of complex (production) systems requires emphasis on managerial
cybernetics and organization system design – and their relationship to common issues associated
with large system definition, implementation, execution, and sustainment.
Complex systems defy simple representation. Thus, the manager must be adept at
conceptualizing the facets of the system being managed and controlled. Over the course of the
last several decades there have been numerous, well-intentioned attempts, to define a single,
holistic architecture that represents the *thing* being managed. No success to date. Therefore,
the manager must be attuned to, and minimally competent in, the use of several prescriptive and
descriptive methods and techniques that collectively proxy for the *thing* being managed.
Models and conceptualizations are endemic to the management of complex systems.
This course is a fusion of the core functions of the engineering manager enabled through a set of
skills that foster technical communication among engineers, technologists, technicians, and
business professionals.
ISEN 665 works equally well as both a gateway course into engineering systems management
and also as a capstone course for the application of the core functions and skills endemic to the
engineering systems manager.
[15.6pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Graduate classification. Cross Listing:
SYEN 645/ISEN 665.
[15.6pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
1.  Define, identify, and apply knowledge of management functions (leading,
planning, organizing, and controlling) and contemporary support tools
and practices (project management, earned value management, critical
chain project management, etc.) to the life-cycle management of
engineered systems
2.  To apply modern planning techniques for management of complex
system, technology projects
3.  To apply organizational techniques to the effective management of
technology projects
4.  To apply management control techniques to the effective management of
technology projects
5.  To apply decision making techniques to the effective management of
technology projects
6.  To define and apply knowledge of management functions to the life-cycle
of technology programs
7.  An ability to manage multi-role teams
8.  An ability to communicate project status information effectively
9.  An ability to establish a cogent technical argument that characterizes the
problem definition, needs analysis, and requirements definition for a
complex engineering system problem
[15.6pt] Special Course Designation
None
[15.6pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
Managing Engineering and Technology.
Authors:  Morse, Schell, and Babcock
Publisher:  Pearson
Publication Date:  2020
Edition:  7th Edition
Notes:
[10.7pt bold] Recommended :
System Engineering Management, 5 th  Edition by Blanchard and Blyler. Wiley 2016. NB: this book
is available for checkout online through the TAMU library system.
During the semester I will also identify readings from a variety of sources (papers, texts, etc.)
and make those known to you through the class notes. All sources and resources leveraged by
me in the development and execution of this course will be identified to you for your own study.
Course notes will be uploaded prior to class; announcement, modifications to the course
schedule and/or topical refinements will be maintained in the course notes.
[15.6pt] Grading Policy
The content of this course material must be internalized by you to be of ultimate value in your
own professional career. The approach that I will use to help you internalize the knowledge of
management techniques applied to engineered systems is simple: Recitation + Application +
Enriched Repetition. I will use the quizzes as a way to ensure you have initiated this learning
process and we will then use homework exercises and project work to help you fully internalize
the concepts of the course.
[10.7pt bold] Quizzes [20%]  – An announced quiz will be given weekly; a time window will be identified for
initiating the quiz along with a time available for its completion once initiated.
[10.7pt bold] Homework [20%]  – there will be several small, design, modeling, and analysis exercises assigned
throughout the semester. These exercises will be used to drive home key principles and
practices of engineering system management. Each HW assignment will make clear whether it is
individual or team based. To the extent possible they will be related to or coordinated with your
semester project so as to serve as either exemplar or draft artifacts in your project design.
[10.7pt bold] Midterm exam [30%]  – a take-home exam will provide an assessment covering the core
principles and practices of the engineering management corpus. The midterm is designed to
ensure competency with core elements of ESM prior to the group work requirements of the
project.
[10.7pt bold] Project Work [30%]  - Additionally I will assign a small team-based project later in the semester
that will pull together concepts from the 665 corpus and homework but will be focused on the
management of a technology or production system effort. Topics: TBA.
[10.7pt bold] Final grades will be assigned as follows:
[10.7pt bold] A: {100 ≥ x ≥ 90}, B: {90 > x ≥ 80}, C: {80 > x ≥ 70}, D: {70 > x ≥ 60}, F: {60 > x}
[10.7pt bold] NB: ALL course quizzes, HW assignments, projects, and exams will be completed using
[10.7pt bold] Canvas. The midterm exam is a “take-home” (dates identified in the schedule) and as such
[10.7pt bold] will be entered in Canvas as an “assignment” with an inviolable due date identified. Standard
[10.7pt bold] submission assessments using applications such as “Turnitin” will be in use for all student
[10.7pt bold] files uploaded to Canvas.
[15.6pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[15.6pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Late quizzes are not accepted. Quizzes will be timed within a “window” within which to start and
complete the quiz. For example, I may assign a 30min timed quiz and open the window to take
the quiz on Friday at 5p and close that window on Sunday at 11:59p. Thus, you would have
30min to complete the quiz once you initiate the quiz. This not a typing contest – the quiz time
will be padded with time to download/upload your solutions.
Late homework policy: late homework can be submitted after the deadline but loses 20% of its
value; no HW will be accepted after the grader uploads the comments and scores without prior
permission due to extenuating circumstances. Your grade and comments regarding the
homework will be made available through canvas. Other issues associated with can be resolved
through application of  Student Rule 7.
[10.7pt bold] NB: Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not considered
[10.7pt bold] late work and is exempted from the late work policy (Student Rule 7).
Instructions for the mid-term and project submissions will be supplied later in the semester.
NB: it is important to submit the assignments on time or within the submission window. Canvas
identifies the exact time at which uploads were made and further when access of any type was
made to the Canvas site. Please make sure that you have a stable connection when making
submissions. Canvas is the system of record. Emailing me or the TA the submissions does not
constitute a submission since Canvas will not have recorded the submission. All of the course
work is to be submitted through Canvas.
[15.6pt] Course Schedule
I will provide a more detailed description of the material for each week/class in the lecture
notes.
Engineering management is a blend of principle and practice applied to complex technological
systems. The type and scope of the system being managed can vary widely as can the phase of
life-cycle that the system is identified with. Structural definitions and constructs adopted for
organizational clarity can often belie the integrated and complex nature of the system being
managed. Systems engineering provides a compendium of methods and models to represent
and characterize the complex nature of systems and their interdependencies. The course is
architected to expose the students to the knowledge, skills, and experiences (KSEs) of
management applied to engineering systems. The semester project provides the experiential
component, the text and state of the practice readings provide the knowledge, and classroom
exercises, management tools, and homework provide the backbone for the skills dimension.
Topical outline
Class
Lecture
Reading
Supplemental
Reading
HW
QuizExamProjectComments
[10.7pt bold] Class
[10.7pt bold] Lecture
EMf -
Engineering
Management
function
EMs -
Engineering
Management
skill
EMa -
Engineering
Management
application
[10.7pt bold] Text:
[10.7pt bold] Managing
[10.7pt bold] Engineering
[10.7pt bold] and
[10.7pt bold] Technology
[10.7pt bold] (MEAT)
[10.7pt bold] 7th
[10.7pt bold] edition
[10.7pt bold] Supplemental
[10.7pt bold] reading
[10.7pt bold] (in addition to
[10.7pt bold] the notes)
[10.7pt bold] Homework
[10.7pt bold] 20%
[10.7pt bold] Quiz
[10.7pt bold] 20%
[10.7pt bold] Exam
[10.7pt bold] 30%
[10.7pt bold] Project
[10.7pt bold] 30%
[10.7pt bold] Comments
[10.7pt bold] 1
[10.7pt bold] (12JAN)
Introduction to
Management
of Engineering
Systems
ch.1-2
Q1
EMf: Leading
ch.3
[10.7pt bold] MLK day holiday - no class 19JAN
[10.7pt bold] 2
[10.7pt bold] (26JAN)
EMf: Planning
ch.4
HW1
Q2
EMs: IDEF0
modeling
(concepting the
system)
IDEF0 Method
Report
[10.7pt bold] 3 (2FEB)
EMf:
Forecasting
(quantitative)
ch.4
Monks - OM
HW2
Q3
EMf:
Forecasting
(qualitative)
ch.4
Monks - OM
[10.7pt bold] 4 (9FEB)
EMf: Decision
making
(determinisitic)
ch.5
Monks - OM
HW3
Q4
EMf: Decision
making
(stochastic)
ch.5
Monks - OM
Class
Lecture
Reading
Supplemental
Reading
HW
QuizExamProjectComments
[10.7pt bold] 5
[10.7pt bold] (16FEB)
EMs: SysML
(concepting the
system)
HBK of SE and
Management
HW4
Q5
EMs: MBSE
(system
synthetic)
HBK of SE and
Management
MBSE -
Model-Based
Systems
Engineering
[10.7pt bold] 6
[10.7pt bold] (23FEB)
EMs: Systems
Dynamics
Modeling
Sterman
HW5
Q6
MFLT-
Simulators for
EM proficiency
Judea Pearl
[10.7pt bold] 7
[10.7pt bold] (2MAR)
EMs: Bias and
Noise
Bias and Noise
Kahneman
HW6
Q7
EMs: Bias and
Noise
Bias and Noise
Kahneman
[10.7pt bold] Spring break - no class 9-13MAR
[10.7pt bold] 8
[10.7pt bold] (16MAR)
EMf:
Organizing
ch.6-7
MCS literature
HW7
Q8
MCS -
Management
Control
Systems
EMf:
Controlling
ch.8
MCS literature
MCS -
Management
Control
Systems
[10.7pt bold] 9
[10.7pt bold] (23MAR)
EMa: R&D
management
ch.9-10
*** TBD ***
HW8
Q9
EMa:
Production and
service System
management
ch.11-13
[10.7pt bold] 10
[10.7pt bold] (30MAR)
EMa: AI-Basics
[10.7pt bold] 30-
[10.7pt bold] Mar
[10.7pt bold] Midterm
[10.7pt bold] distributed
EMa: AI-
Enabled
Management
Class
Lecture
Reading
Supplemental
Reading
HW
QuizExamProjectComments
[10.7pt bold] 11
[10.7pt bold] (6APR)
EMs: Labor
relations
Collective
bargaining
literature TBA
Project
HW1
[10.7pt bold] 7-Apr   8-Apr
[10.7pt bold] Midterm
[10.7pt bold] due;
[10.7pt bold] Team Project
[10.7pt bold] released
EMfs: Project
management –
I; CPM and
PERT
ch.14-15
PM for
Engineering…
(Nicholas)
[10.7pt bold] 12
[10.7pt bold] (13APR)
EMfs: Project
management –
II; CCPM
PM for
Engineering…
(Nicholas)
Project
HW2
Q10
EMfs: Project
management –
III; controls
PM for
Engineering…
(Nicholas)
[10.7pt bold] 13
[10.7pt bold] (20APR)
EMfs: Project
management –
III; Agile
PM for
Engineering…
(Nicholas)
Project
HW3
Q11
EMfs: Systems
engineering
management –
I (NARD)
SE and
Management
(Blanchard/Blyler)
SE demystified
(Holt)
[10.7pt bold] 14
[10.7pt bold] (27APR)
EMfs: Systems
engineering
management –
II (SEMP/Risk)
Q12
[10.7pt bold] 2-May
[10.7pt bold] Team
[10.7pt bold] Projects due
STS; HRO;
Ethics; Course
epilogue
ch.16
Current articles
TBA; Perrow
[10.7pt bold] * It is critical to have assignments submitted on time.  The midterm will be released at the start
[10.7pt bold] of week10 and will be due 1-week later .  The project will be assigned in week11 and due
[10.7pt bold] 2MAY .  Grades for graduating students are due by 6MAY.
[15.6pt] Additional Course Information
[15.6pt] AI Statement
[13.7pt] Leveraging AI technology as a resource
The ability to rapidly assimilate information across a large number of disparate sources is very
useful to the engineer. Unfortunately, the use and acceptance of AI technology is still in its
infancy and the veracity of the AI generated information is not easily vetted nor is there a
standard process by which the vetting is acceptable across the academic community. Regardless,
it is a resource – but due to its volatility (same prompt, different AI-bot, varied response) and
sometimes questionable provenance (what, exactly, did it assimilate in order to generate its
response) the use of this technology must be carefully documented by you. The burden of
veracity is placed on the user.
If you choose to leverage AI technologies of any type then you must, append to your submission,
the following documentation:
1. The time, date, and the exact AI technology (also termed AI-bot (for AI-Chatbot)
below) used
2. The full specification of the prompt that was used; including the progression of
prompts used to generate the result
3. The full response provided by the AI-bot
4. A discussion of how and where you leveraged the AI generated material in the
course artifact being produced
5. A full verification, by you, of the response from the AI-bot; this is akin to a
literature review for each of the points made by the AI-bot that were leveraged
by you in your submission
6. A statement, signed by you, attesting to the veracity of the response from the
AI-bot
Clearly, with a timed quiz, use of AI technology makes little sense – since you would have the
added burden of supplying the aforementioned documentation as part of the timed submission.
Additionally, the HW, midterm, and project are largely model-based, thus the use of AI may also
be of limited value versus the additional documentation required.
Any submission made using AI-based inputs, but not documented IAW the 6-steps above, will be
considered an academic honor violation.