<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 462 Syllabus
Section 501 (42606)
Microcomputer Systems
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 12:45PM
End Time: 2:00PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 244
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: F
Start Time: 4:10PM
End Time: 5:00PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  EABA 121
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Abdullah Muzahid
Email:  abdullah.muzahid@tamu.edu
Office Location:  Peterson 206
Phone:  9794581059
Office Hours
[13.0pt] Wed 3:00PM-5:00PM
Preferred Contact Method
In person
Webpage:  https://people.tamu.edu/~abdullah.muzahid/index.html
Biography
[13.0pt] I am an Associate Professor in the department of Computer Science
[13.0pt] and Engineering at Texas A&M University. I have joined here in Fall
[13.0pt] 2028. My research area is broadly computer architecture and systems
[13.0pt] with recent focus on machine learning and security.
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Microcomputer Systems. (2-2). Credit 3. Microcomputers as components of
systems; VLSI processor and coprocessor architectures, addressing and instruction
sets; I/O interfaces and supervisory control; VLSI architectures for signal processing;
integrating special purpose processors into a system. Prerequisite: CSCE 313.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
This class aims to guide students to make use of their knowledge from prior classes to
develop the best practice in design and implement of novel ideas into tangible prototype
systems. The class will guide students through some  basic procedures and logistics in
system development and prototyping to tailor their own developments to achieve the project
goals. Every application has its own requirements and resource constraints. The class will
guide students through the baseline development process to achieve their own unique
project goals.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  CSCE 313.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Initiate, formulate, plan an open project;
Analyze and choose microcontroller, software technologies, and physical
fixtures to meet functional requirements;
Integrate the hardware, software modules, and the physical fixture to
manifest the application scenarios:
Make a live demonstration of the project prototype.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Required
No Textbook Needed
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Grading Breakdown
Graded Assignments
Frequency
Weight
Written Tests
1
20%
Labs
4
20%
One Pager
2
10%
Final Project (one pager+work
plan+checkpoints+demo+report)  1
50%
Grading Scale:
A: 90-100%
B: 80-89%
C: 70-79%
D: 60-69%
F: 0-59%
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[12.0pt] To achieve the leaning goals,  the class is organized into three main pillars of
[12.0pt] the  activities in two phases.
[12.0pt] Phase I: Lecture and tests, and lab exercises. (5-6 weeks)
[12.0pt] Phase II: Term projects. (remaining weeks)
[12.0pt bold] Lectures
[12.0pt] Using successfully implemented class projects in the past as the
[12.0pt] references, the lectures are a series of tear down of these past prototypes
[12.0pt] for students to guide students through major technical elements and
[12.0pt] challenges that need to be overcome to transform an idea into a working
[12.0pt] system.
[12.0pt] The lectures focus on
[12.0pt] (a) description of system objectives from system designers’ perspectives,
[12.0pt] then
[12.0pt] (b) formulation of the system design problems,
[12.0pt] (c) key challenges in solving the problems, and
[12.0pt] (d) the solutions and demonstration from designers’ perspectives.
[12.0pt bold] One Test
[12.0pt] Both the lectures and lab contents are used in the single test.
[12.0pt bold] Guided Lab Exercises
[12.0pt] Students are organized into  groups to carry out a number of hands-on lab
[12.0pt] exercises.
[12.0pt bold] Term Projects
[12.0pt] The final project is based on the  development process of
[12.0pt] (a) initiation of idea,
[12.0pt] (b) development of a work plan,
[12.0pt] (c) execution of the project development, and
[12.0pt] (d) final review of the project.
[12.0pt] The project development is phased into two checkpoints, each of which has
[12.0pt] defined progress goals, followed by the final project review.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Unless otherwise specified, the use of Automated Writing Tools, including ChatGPT and
similar artificial intelligence (AI) tools, is strictly prohibited in this course, even when
properly attributed. The use of automated writing tools is considered plagiarism and will be
handled in accordance with existing policy.
[16.0pt] Course Specific Attendance Policy
[12.0pt] For excused absences, an opportunity will be provided to make up any
[12.0pt] graded work that was missed. For unexcused absences, a grade of zero will
[12.0pt] be assigned for a missed quiz or in-class assignment. Missed exams will be
[12.0pt] rescheduled without penalty for an excused absence, or with a 25% penalty
[12.0pt] if the absence is not excused, and at approval of the instructor.
[12.0pt] To request approval of an absence, send me an e-mail explaining the reason
[12.0pt bold] for the absence  prior to the class or lab . If advanced notification is not
[12.0pt] possible (e.g., unexpected illness) send the e-mail within 48 hours of the
[12.0pt] absence and be sure to explain why you were not able to notify me in
[12.0pt] advance. For illness, follow-up the e-mail by submitting a note from a doctor
[12.0pt] or clinic.