<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 452 Syllabus
Section 500 (58361)
Robotics and Spatial Intelligence
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 4:10PM
End Time: 5:25PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  HRBB 113
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Jason O'Kane
Email:  jokane@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR 318
Phone:  jokane@tamu.edu
Office Hours
Tuesdays, 12pm-1pm or by appointment
Preferred Contact Method
Email is the recommended method for contacting me.
Messages in the Canvas messaging system, including comments attached to
assignments, are not likely to be received in a timely manner.
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Robotics and Spatial Intelligence. (3-0). Credit 3. Algorithms for executing spatial
tasks; path planning and obstacle aance in two- and three-dimensional robots--
configuration space, potential field, free-space decomposition methods; stable
grasping and manipulation; dealing with uncertainty; knowledge representation for
planning--geometric and symbolic models of the environment; task-level
programming; learning. Prerequisite: CSCE 315 or CSCE 331; MATH 304 or MATH
311.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
There are two prerequisites:
CSCE 315 (Programming Studio) or CSCE 331 (Foundations of Software
Engineering)
MATH 304 (Linear Algebra) or MATH 311 (Topics in Applied Mathematics I)
Students will be expected to exhibit mature mathematical ability,  mastery of
fundamental algorithms and data structures, and strong programming skills, as
appropriate for an upper-level course in computer science.
Students will be expected to describe and evaluate technical concepts correctly
using precise written English.
Major projects will require the use of the Robot Operating System (ROS) software
system, which is best supported within the Ubuntu Linux operating system. The
recommended programming language is Python.  Demonstrations and examples
will be based on this Ubuntu+ROS+Python environment. You are welcome to
identify and utilize other suitable operating systems or languages for your projects,
provided that doing so does not trivialize the assignment. However, the instructor
and TA  will not be able to provide assistance with this.  Note that commonly
attempted alternatives to Linux, including Docker, Windows Subsystem for Linux,
VirtualBox, and VMWare have proven troublesome to many students in the past.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Create algorithms and software for both mobile robots and manipulators.
Analyze different sensors for different robot tasks.
Evaluate and create navigation and motion planning algorithms.
Apply existing approaches to formulate a comprehensive solution.
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Principles of Robot Motion: Theory, Algorithms and Implementations
Authors:  Howie Choset, Kevin M. Lynch, Seth Hutchinson, George Kantor, Wolfram
Burgard, Lydia E. Kavraki, and Sebastian Thrun
Publisher:  MIT Press
Publication Date:  2005
This material Is: Recommended
Computational Principles of Mobile Robotics
Authors:  Gregory Dudek and Michael Jenkin
Publisher:  Cambridge University Press
Publication Date:  2024
Edition:  Third
This material Is: Recommended
Planning Algorithms
Authors:  Steven M. LaValle
Publisher:  Cambridge University Press
Publication Date:  2006
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Your learning in this course will be evaluated based on the following elements:
Homework  assignments throughout the semester. These assignments will
be similar in format to exam questions. Homework grading will be based on
the standard of a reasonable good faith attempt to solve each part of the
assignment. Therefore, you should complete the assignments but should not
conclude that receiving full credit for the homework indicates that your
answers were fully correct. (10%)
Projects  using ROS. There will be approximately five of these assignments,
some of which will be completed individually and others in small groups.
(30%)
Tests , including two mid-term exams and final exam. (20% each)
Letter grade thresholds
Thresholds for determining final grades appear below.
A:  ≥ 90%
B:  ≥ 80%
C:  ≥ 70%
D:  ≥  60%
F: < 60%
The instructor reserves the right to adjust these thresholds downward, but
promises not to adjust them upward.
Gradebook access
Grades will be recorded via Canvas. It is your responsibility to verify that grades are
correctly recorded on this site.
Corrections and regrades
My goal is to ensure that all of the grading for this course is fair and correct. If you
believe there's been a mistake in grading, please bring it to the attention of the
instructor within one week after the scores are posted. Regrade requests after one
week will be politely declined.
Note on grades as computed by Canvas
Efforts have been made to ensure that Canvas is configured to calculate grades
correctly, accounting for weights of various types of assignments and other details
of the grading policy. Nevertheless, if a discrepancy is discovered between Canvas-
computed grades and the state course policies, the course policies in this syllabus
will govern assignment of final grades.
Deviations from the grading policy
I assume that every student takes the class intending to succeed, and I share that
goal. However, in the interest of fairness and consistency, requests for grade
increases that are inconsistent with the stated grading scale will be politely
declined. Here is an incomplete list of hypothetical requests from students that are
not sufficient reasons to deviate from the stated grading scale:
Getting a grade lower than _____ makes me feel sad.
I am about to graduate.
I am really close to getting a _____.
I am willing to do extra work.
If my grade is less than _____, I won't be able to graduate.
I have a good GPA so far.
I have been away from school for a few years.
I have never failed a class before.
I have never taken a course in this area before.
I have too many other responsibilities.
I have worked extremely hard in the course.
I need a GPA of at least _____ to get the internship I want.
It doesn't hurt to ask!
I've never gotten a grade as low as !blank before.
I want to get into graduate school.
My parents will be disappointed in me.
The course is too hard for me.
I worked hard to finish the semester strong.
Important reminder
Keep in mind that I am grading your work, not you as a person.
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Homework  assignments will not be accepted late.  Solutions will be posted
and discussed very shortly after the deadline.
Projects  may submitted late, subject to a deduction of 0.0139% of the total
available points for each minute late. This means, for example, that one day
after the deadline, the maximum possible score is 80%; three days after the
deadline, the maximum possible score is 40%; after approximately five days
beyond the deadline, it will be impossible to earn any credit for a project.
Tests  missed without an approved excused absence will be awarded a score
of zero.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
The schedule for the course is summarized below.
Weeks 1-4: introduction, robot hardware, wheeled systems, navigation
Test 1: February 16
Weeks 6-10: control, localization, mapping, SLAM
Test 2: March 25
Weeks 11-15: motion planning, multiple robots, planning over information
spaces, advanced topics
Final Exam: May 1
Homework assignments will be due before the start of most lectures.  Projects will
be due approximately every two weeks.  Students should plan their time, including
potential plans to depart from College Station after the semester, in accordance
with this schedule.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Information
Attendance
You are expected to attend and participate in each lecture, and I will make every
effort to ensure that class attendance is worth your time.
Mobile devices
Please silence any mobile devices before coming to class. If your phone rings in
class, I reserve the right to answer it for you and take a message. Likewise, if my
phone rings during class time, I will allow a student to answer it.
Fast Track credit
Some undergraduate students are participating in the College of Engineering's Fast
Track program, which essentially allows graduate-level courses to count toward
bachelor's and master's degrees.  Only students enrolled in CSCE 752 can receive
Fast Track credit for this course. Please ensure that you are enrolled in the correct
course. University rules prohibit switching between CSCE452 and CSCE752 after the
add/drop period, despite the similarity between the two courses.
Academic integrity
Academic misconduct undermines the educational mission of the course and is
incompatible with each of our Aggie Core Values of Respect, Excellence, Leadership,
Loyalty, Integrity, and Selfless Service. Therefore, you are expected to practice the
highest possible standards of academic integrity.  All incidents of academic
misconduct will be reported to the Aggie Honor System Office (ASHO). The standard
academic penalty for academic misconduct is an F* grade for the course. Other
penalties may be imposed within the Honor Code process.  This policy includes all
forms of academic misrepresentation, including cheating; fabrication; multiple
submissions; plagiarism; complicity; abuse and misuse of access; unauthorized
access; and violation of college, program, departmental or course rules.
It is not acceptable in this course to submit work completed by anyone else as your
own, to make your own work available to anyone else, nor to distribute or post the
materials for the course in any venue. Any use of words, images, code, or ideas of
others must be accompanied by complete and accurate citations. Use of the words,
images, code or ideas of others without complete and accurate citation is
plagiarism, which is considered a form of academic misconduct. The expectation is
that the words, images, code, and ideas you submit will be your own original work,
with the exception of occasional correctly cited quotations in support of your own
ideas.
Unless an assignment includes instructions to the contrary, it is permissible to
consult Internet resources to complete the assignments in this class, provided that
you give adequate citations of every resource you consult. This policy includes both
human-generated and AI-generated material. It is not permissible to copy code or
anything else directly from the web. Representing the work of others as your own is
never acceptable.
Submission of identical or substantially identical work will be considered strong
evidence that violations of academic integrity by all involved have occurred. This
means, among other things, that posting project code in any publicly-viewable
venue (for example, a public GitHub repository) is strongly discouraged. If others
locate and utilize your code, you will be held responsible for providing it.
Additional details about the university's policies on academic misconduct appear
below.
Policy changes
Changes to the syllabus at the instructor's reasonable discretion, including changes
to the evaluation and grading mechanisms, are possible but unlikely. Any such
changes will be announced.
[16.0pt] AI Statement
Submitting work with a significant percentage of AI-generated content, unless
otherwise permitted, can be considered academic misconduct under Texas A&M
University Student Rule 20. Students must therefore cite the use of Generative AI
tools and document what they have contributed to an assignment.