<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] ISEN 370 Syllabus
Section 502 (45909)
Production Systems Engineering
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 09:35AM
End Time: 10:50AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ETB 1013
Credit Hours:  3
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Alaa Elwany
Email:  elwany@tamu.edu
Office Location:  ETB 4045
Phone:  979-458-2365
Office Hours
Tuesdays 12 - 1 pm
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Production Systems Engineering. (3-0). Credit 3. Principles, models, and techniques
for planning and analysis of production and distribution systems; application of
linear, integer, and nonlinear optimization models and solution methods for
aggregate planning, supply chain planning, push (MRP) and pull (JIT) material flow
management, inventory control under deterministic and stochastic demands,
operations scheduling, and production scheduling. Prerequisites: Grade of C or
better in ISEN 230 and ISEN 320.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in ISEN 230 and ISEN 320.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
describe different types and levels of decision making in a production system
model, formulate, solve, analyze problems arising in aggregate production an
d supply chain planning
model and analyze fundamental inventory control systems with certain/uncer
tain demand
describe and analyze push (MRP) and pull production systems (JIT)
model and solve deterministic operations scheduling problems
model and solve basic project scheduling problems
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
Production and Operations Analysis
ISBN:  978-1-4786-2306-9
Authors:  Nahmias, S., Olsen T. N.
Publisher:  Waveland Press
Publication Date:  2015
Edition:  8
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
[10.0pt] Assignments (Home Works or other): 10%
[10.0pt] Exams: 90%
[10.0pt bold] There will be  four exams :
1. The  first three exams  are not comprehensive and will cover roughly
one third of course materials.
2. At the end of the course,  one optional comprehensive final exam  will
be held.
3. The lowest exam grade out of these four exams will be dropped, and the
overall course grade will be based on the four remaining exam grades at
30%  weight each, towards the overall course grade.
Final grades will be assigned as follows:
A: [90,100]  B: [80-90)  C: [70,80)  D: [50,70)  F: [0,50)
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[10.0pt] Topical Outline and Exams Schedule
[10.0pt] Introduction to Production and Operations Strategy
[10.0pt] Forecasting
[10.0pt] Aggregate Production Planning
[10.0pt] Inventory Control: Known Demand
[10.0pt] Inventory Control: Uncertain Demand
[10.0pt] Material Requirements Planning (MRP) and Just-in-Time (JIT)
[10.0pt] Operations Scheduling
[10.0pt] Project Scheduling (time permitting)
[10.0pt bold] HW Schedule:
[10.0pt] The following represents when home works will be assigned. Due date will be set for
[10.0pt] each home work on Canvas
[10.0pt] Wk 1: HW 1
[10.0pt] Wk 2: HW 2
[10.0pt] Wk 3: HW 3
[10.0pt] Wk 4: HW 4
[10.0pt] Wk 6: HW 5
[10.0pt] Wk 7: HW 6
[10.0pt] Wk 8: HW 7
[10.0pt] Wk 10: HW 8
[10.0pt] Wk 11: HW 9
[10.0pt] Wk 12: HW 10
[10.0pt] WK 14: HW 11
[10.0pt bold] Exams Schedule:
[10.0pt] Exam 1: 2/12/26
[10.0pt] Exam 2: 3/17/26
[10.0pt] Exam 3: 4/21/26
[10.0pt] Exam 4: May 1 (Section 500), April 30 (Section 502)  (COMPREHENSIVE FINAL)
[10.0pt] All items in the schedule above are subject to change.
[10.0pt] Any changes will be communicated by the instructor 1 week a priori.
[10.0pt] If no changes or modifications are announced, you are expected to follow the schedule
[10.0pt] above.