<!-- body_font:11.0pt -->
[16.0pt] CSCE 312 Syllabus
Section 500 (37714)
Computer Organization
Spring 2026 - College Station
[16.0pt] Course Information
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LEC
Meeting Days: TR
Start Time: 11:10AM
End Time: 12:25PM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 350
Meeting Times:  Meeting Type: LAB
Meeting Days: MW
Start Time: 09:10AM
End Time: 10:00AM
Start Date: 01/12/2026
End Date: 05/05/2026
Meeting Location:  ZACH 240
Credit Hours:  4
[16.0pt] Instructor Details
Aakash Tyagi
Email:  tyagi@tamu.edu
Office Location:  PETR-207
Phone:  979-845-5480
Office Hours
Book time with Tyagi, Aakash: 1o1 with Aakash Tyagi
Preferred Contact Method
Use the above link (Wed, Fri)
Webpage:  https://engineering.tamu.edu/cse/profiles/tyagi-aakash.html
Biography
Aakash Tyagi has a PhD in Computer Engineering in the field of Semiconductor Yield
Modeling and Design for Manufacturability. He has over two decades of industry
experience at Intel Corporation in end-to-end CPU development including front-end
logic design, functional verification, physical design, circuit design, and silicon debug
and validation. Since 2014, he has been with Texas A&M University Department of
Computer Science and Engineering as a Professor of Practice where he teaches
courses in Computer Organization, Systems Programming, and Software Testing
and leads research and workforce development activities in hardware verification.
[16.0pt] Catalog Description
Computer Organization. (3-2). Credit 4. Computer systems from programmer's
perspective including simple logic design, data representation and processor
architecture, programming of processors, memory, control flow, input/output, and
performance measurements; hands-on lab assignments. Prerequisite: Grade of C
or better in CSCE 221, or concurrent enrollment.
[16.0pt] Additional Course Details
You are required to have a computing device on which you have permission to
install software. Please contact the instructor if you do not have a computing device.
Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) is an initiative in the college of engineering where
students are required to bring their own computing device to class. The following
link explains the program and provides information about approved
devices: https://engineering.tamu.edu/easa/areas/academics/byod . Approved BYOD
devices fulfill the requirements for this class, although many other devices are
sufficient.
[16.0pt] Course Prerequisites
Prerequisite/Corequisite(s):  Grade of C or better in CSCE 221, or concurrent
enrollment.
[16.0pt] Course Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to:
Perform basic logic design
Understand the design of a simple computer system
Understand elements that make up a CPU (Central Processing Unit)
Design software with an understanding of how it will run on computers
Participate in discussions that involve impact of hardware and software
elements on each other and the performance of the program
Take intermediate and advanced classes in computer architecture, systems,
operating systems, cloud, parallel computing
[16.0pt] Special Course Designation
None
[16.0pt] Textbook and/or Resource Materials
This material Is: Recommended
The Elements of Computing Systems, Second Edition, Building a Modern Computer
from First Principles
Authors:  Noam Nisan, Shimon Schocken
Publisher:  MIT Press
Publication Date:  2021
Edition:  2nd edition
URL for Resource:  https://www.nand2tetris.org/
Notes:
We cover the first half of this book. The chapters are available free online at the
above link.
This material Is: Optional
Digital Design
Authors:  Frank Vahid
Publisher:  Wiley
Publication Date:  2010
Edition:  2nd Edition
Notes:
We use content from this book for teaching logic design.
This material Is: Optional
Computer Systems: A Programmer's Perspective
Authors:  Randal E. Bryant and David R. O'Hallaron
Publisher:  Prentice Hall
Publication Date:  2015
Notes:
We refer to this book for content on memory hierarchy
[16.0pt] Grading Policy
Grade Allocation (% of total)
Graded Lab Exercises (12): 48%
Lab Attendance: 6%
Project (1): 16%
Midterm Exam (1): 15%
Final Exam (1): 15%
[16.0pt] Late Work Policy
Work submitted by a student as makeup work for an excused absence is not
considered late work and is exempt from the late work policy ( Student Rule 7 ).
[16.0pt] Course Specific Late Work Policy
Exams : Absence is marked as 0 without prior approval from the instructor. Absence
requests must be made in email (tyagi@tamu.edu) at least 4 hour in advance.
Absence requests without accompanying physician's note may be denied.
Project : Late Submissions will incur a flat 30% penalty. Late submissions will be
allowed till 11:59pm on the last day of classes.
Graded Lab Exercises (GLE) :  Late Submissions will incur a flat 10% penalty. Late
[10.5pt] submissions will be allowed till 11:59pm on the Sunday of the week during which the
[10.5pt] GLE was assigned.
[16.0pt] Course Schedule
[14.0pt] TENTATIVE SCHEDULE (Subject to change during the
[14.0pt] semester)
[14.0pt] Lab Themes  (GLE* are graded lab exercises handed out on
[12.0pt] WeekX.Day1 and due by 11:59pm WeekX.Day2, so as example if labs
[12.0pt] are MW (TR) then GLE is assigned on Mon(Tue) and is due for
[12.0pt] submission by 11:59pm Wed(Thu) of Week X.
[13.0pt] WEEK1: No LAB
[13.0pt] WEEK2: Tool Installation + GLE1 (TBD)
[13.0pt] WEEK3: Writing basic hdl (Inverter using NAND gate) + Writing test file
[13.0pt] + Writing cmp file + GLE2 (Basic Gates)
[13.0pt] WEEK3: Building multi-inputs, multi-bit gates + GLE3 (multi-input, multi-
[13.0pt] bit gates, simple logic expression implementations using
[13.0pt] combinational logic)
[13.0pt] WEEK4: MUX and Decoder + GLE4 (Modular combinational selector
[13.0pt] logic)
[13.0pt] WEEK5: Debugging failures + GLE5 (Meaty Combinational logic
[13.0pt] implementation)
[13.0pt] WEEK6: Basic Addition Building Blocks + GLE6 (Adders)
[13.0pt] WEEK7: Ripple Carry Addition, Sub-busing + GLE7 (Arithmetic Logic)
[13.0pt] ===============================MIDTERM================
[13.0pt] ============
[13.0pt] WEEK8: Clocking and BIT + GLE8 (Multi-bit Registers and Modular
[13.0pt] Memory)
[13.0pt] WEEK9: Modular memory + GLE9 (Sequential Logic)
[13.0pt] WEEK10: Basic assembly code + GLE10 (Basic Assembly)
[13.0pt] WEEK11: Code with variables + GLE11 (Assembly code with variables)
[13.0pt] WEEK12: Code with conditionals and labels + GLE12 (Assembly code
[13.0pt] with conditionals and labels)
[13.0pt] WEEK13: BITBOT CPU (Deploy Project)
[13.0pt] WEEK14: BITBOT Computer (Continue Project)
[13.0pt] Lecture Themes
[13.0pt] WEEK1: Course Intro and Big Picture of Modern Computers, Basic
[13.0pt] Number Systems
[13.0pt] WEEK2: Boolean Algebra, Properties and Minimization, Logic Gates
[13.0pt] and Expressions
[13.0pt] WEEK3: Combinational Logic Design, Combinational Logic Delays
[13.0pt] WEEK4: MUX, DMUX, Decoder, Encoder
[13.0pt] WEEK5: Basic Addition Building Blocks + Ripple Carry Adder
[13.0pt] WEEK6: Modular Adders
[13.0pt] WEEK7: 2s complement and Subtractors
[13.0pt] ===============================MIDTERM================
[13.0pt] =============
[13.0pt] WEEK8: Sequential Design, DFF, Bit, Registers
[13.0pt] WEEK9: Modular memory
[13.0pt] WEEK9: Assembly Language, Variables, Labels
[13.0pt] WEEK10: Computer Architecture
[13.0pt] WEEK11: Computer Architecture
[13.0pt] WEEK12: Special Topics: Memory Hierarchy
[13.0pt] WEEK13: Special Topics: Pipelining
[13.0pt] WEEK14: Special Topics: Parallel Processing
[16.0pt] AI Statement
[12.0pt] You are permitted to use AI as your assistant and tutor where applicable and
[12.0pt] with caution. Do not outsource your graded work to AI.